SECOND EDITION 


TOTAL WRECK   

OF THE                                                                                                      

BRITANNIA.           

An account of the melancholy loss of the Britannia Steam              
Boat, which was lost on her passage from Newry to the               
Broomielaw, early an Monday morning last.----Glasgow,                                  

15th October, 1829.                                                                                           

(From the Glasgow Courier of Thursday, Oct.15)                                                          

LOSS OF THe  BRITANNIA STEAM-BOAT.                                           

Early on Monday morning  last, this Steam Boat, on her                     
passage from Newry to the Broomielaw was driven by the                  
gale of Sunday evening into Donaghadee harbour, and sunk                       
there, after having been brought to anchor. We are happy
to state that the crew  and  passengers  were saved, several of                    
them having been awoke by the water coming in upon them                     
in bed. We understand that she is not  much damaged, and                     
is expected to be got up.                                                                                   

Since we copied the above from the Courier a letter has been                       
received in Glasgow, which states that the Vessel has become a                                   
total wreck.                                                                                                        

STATE OF IRELAND                                              

On Friday  night last, he farm of  Mr.Cloxton belonging to Sir Henry Parnell,                          
M. P, within a mile  of Mary borough, and within call of two Magistrates of the                              
Queen's County, was attacked between the hours of nine and ten o'clock by a party                                 
of Rockites who demanded fire-arms, and commenced to break  open the doors. The                          
police, going their rounds, heard the attack, and immediately made for the place,
upon coming up the Rockites  called, "who comes ? the police, was the reply they                                
were desired  to stand off, and the Rockite party called out, " picquet, what are you    
about ?" the Rockets fired four shots, which were returned by the police, after the                               
Sergeont had  received a  shot through the throat. One of the Rockites was stabbed                           
through the eye add taken prisoner, but , the others Hed.  A horse pistol and blun.                        
derbuss were taken loaded with  slugs ; traces of  blood were observed on the road for                             
three miles next morning.            

Next morning Captain Percival, a Magistrate, Lieuts. M'Cumming and Rollo                          
with the company of the 92d Highlanders  stationed  in Maryborough and Lieut.                          
Wray, with the; Maryborough and Stradbally, occured the country for miles round,                 
when one prisoner with several stand of arms,  were brought in. The outrage oc-                               
curred close to the military station.                                                                                                 
								John  Muir printer, Glasgow.                            LIFE AND DEATH OF THE OLD

Woman of Ratcliffe Highway.

This is to let you understand that an old woman of Ratcliffe
Highway, was drowned in a heavy shower of feathers last night,
6 weeks ago. I went in search of her as fast as I could run sit-
ting down by the side of a ditch, until I met John Jarvis a coach-
man, driving 6 dead horses under an empty post chaise laden with
6 miliners, 4 tambour workers, 2 milestones, and a sheet anchor
for a 74. I asked him if he could tell me about this old woman,
he said he could not, but John Manks could tell me all about her.
I asked him where he lived, he told me he lived beyond all parts
of the 3 flying jackasses, where the cock never crows, the wind
never blow, or old Tom Fox never blew his bugle-horn on the
top of a high hill down in a low hallow, in a short 4 square round
house, standing all alone by itself, and only 60 or 70 houses ad-
joining to it. When I received this information. I set off as fast
as 4 could run sitting down every minute to rest myself, until I
met an old man very had with the horn cholic in his big toe, the
headache in his belly, and the [  ]vel in the back of the neck
I called for a coach, drov   him "to an apothecarys' shop  called
for 5 pints of pigeon's milk and 4 quarts of eels beastings, and
had it boiled in a leathern wooden iron pot, and gave it to him.
then conveyed him to the lock hospital, where he was put to bed,
and safely delivered of a blacksmith s anvil, 2 tons and a half
weight, with 9 grenadier fleas, fully acontred with a pair of pistols
a blunderbuss and 18 rounds of ball cartridges, was supposed to
be on the march to St Helena, to bring Bonaparte home on the
87th day of the hungriest month in the year 1800 and boiled
milk. At length I arrived at John Mank's house but was very
much surprised I could hear or see no one but was talking to them
all; saw John coming out of a vinegar bottle, so well be might
for he was a bottle maker to trade. I asked him if he could tell
me about this old woman ; he told  me he could not ; but he wrote
a letter to her to-morrw night ere yesterday, 7 years ago, when he
was fast asleep and his eye open : he new her father well he was
smith and farrier to a pack of grey-hounds, and her mother was
sucklar to a young pig for Lady Doall in Shovcover street. where
they sell turkey cock's eggs tor buttermilk  and where pigs play
cards for stirabout. When I received this information. I was
going to take my farewell of him when he told me I should not
go until I should see some of his wonders; the first great wonder
he showed me was six of the oldest daughte s spinning 6 hanks
of yarn each out of charcoal ; the next was little boys and 6 little
girls playing hide and seek under a hay cock made of stones ; the
next was he and his eldest son thrashing tobacco into peas one of
the peas jumped through a stone that was 6 feet thick, and killed
a dead dog that was lying on the other side, the dog jumped up
and began to bark. I jumped over the wall so well I might for
it was only the height of a cabbage stock, but that ca bage stock
was not much higher then Neilson's Monument in Glasgow. I
turned the dog inside out and he jumped after a hair that was fol-
lowed by 6 bog-trotters, and 4 pensioners, that lost their heads,
legs, and arms at the battle of Waterloo, and I thinking to my-
self that I could run as fast as any of them I clapped my two shin
bones in my pocket and followed them over hill and dale with the
hue and cry in my mouth until I came to the Currach of Kildare
where I saw the Belfast Mail Coach and the Londonderry steamer
engaged in a dreadful battle, firing boiling hot stirabout and
roasted potatoes at each other, one of potatoes struck the hare
over the right eye when out bounced the old woman. I immedi-
ately clapped her under my arm and made one jump, and landed
on the New Bridge accidentally, I struck my toe against the bat-
tlement, and both of us fell into the Clyde, where the old woman
being very much tird, she was not able to creep out of thewater,
so there she remained, and was burnt into ashes in a blaze of cold
water before I could save her.In Memory

OF THE                

TAY BRIDGE DISASTER.       

THE BRIDGE WAS BLOWN DOWN, WITH THE LAST TRAIN FROM THE SOUTH, ON SUNDAY EVENING, THE 

28TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 1879, WHEN IT WAS SUPPOSED THAT OVER SIXTY LIVES WERE LOST,         

AND NONE WERE LEFT TO TELL THE TALE.                                                    

There are now Forty-six bodies recovered, two of which are women, and one a girl, and all identified.   15th May, 1880           


The Bridge, the Bridge, the wondrous Bridge
That spans the Firth of Tay,
The greatest work of human skill,
The wonder of the day.

Its lofty pillars stood erect,
And bore its girders high,
A noble sight, when underneath
Great ships were sailing by.

A wonder to the world it stood,
The glory of Dundee ;
An iron bridge, so firmly built,
Across the raging sea.

But what's the strength of bolt and bar ?
And what's the skill of man,
Compared with nature's blast that blow,
Produced by nature's fan ?

Though large and strong the beams may be,
That stretch across the spans,
Let but the tempest breathe its breath,
And iron yields like wands.

'Twas Sabbath eve, the train had left
Old Scotland's chiefest town,
Where stands the ancient Holyrood,
A palace of renown.

From stage to stage the train speeds on,
And quickly wends its way
Through hill and dale and country town,
Bound for the Banks of Tay.

Its living freight of young and old,
It gathered by the way ;
And some were fearful, some were bold,
And some were glad and gay.

Some sad at heart their way direct,
The sick to tend and cheer ;
While others with their friends expect
To spend a glad New-Year.

A father with his children sits,                               
The youngest in his arm,
The smile of joy upon his lips,                                
He never thinks of harm.

A youth, in manhood's prime, is seen :
A maid sits by his side-
The object of his love so keen-                        
   About to be his bride.                                        

The train speeds on its fatal course,                        
And nears the spot of doom ;                              
The bridge is seen, while passing clouds                   
Unvail the pale-faced moon.                                  

Amidst the tempest loud and shrill,                           
The train it did proceed ;                                    
When, ah ! no human hand or skill,
Could stay the fatal deed.                                

The train into the girders came,                             
And loud the wind did roar ;                              
A flash is seen-the Bridge is broke-
The train is heard no more.                                

"The Bridge is down, "the Bridge is down,"          
in words of terror spread ;                                     
The train is gone, its living freight
Are numbered with the dead.                               

'Tis sad to see the open gap
At morrow's light of day ;                                  
But sadder, still, to think of those
That perished in the Tay.                                   

Ah ! what's our life-a thread-a breath-
That's easy snatch'd away ;
In midst of life we are in death,
Is taught us day by day.

Dry up your tears, ye friends th
And lean upon the Lord ;                                     
The widow's stay, the orphan's friend,
Are promised in His word.                                  

By C. HORNE, Author of the "Aberdeen Ferry Boat Calamity," "Childhood's Days," "To an Aged Mother," "Fishing        
Boats' Disaster," &c.    Sold at 124 Gallowgate, and 26 Craigie Street, Aberdeen.                               

                                                                                                             LOSS OF THE

FRANCES MARY

Ye mariners and landsmen come listen unto me,
While unto you I do relate the dangers of the sea,
For the loss of the Francis Mary will grieve your
to woe,
Of all the dreadful hardships that we did undergo.

'Twas from St. John's, New Brunswick, in January
we set sail,
Unto the port of Liverpool with a sweet and pleasant
gale,
But a dreadful storm arose uuto our sad dismay,
Which carried our main-mast and mizen quite away.

Our vessel on the raging sea was tossed too and fro,
Our cambouse was washed away, our jolly-boat also,
We cut away our fore-mast, our ship to keep the wind
How vexed to think hard fortune had proved so unkind

An American hove in view, and welcome was the sight
For thought of life and liberty did greatly us delight;
She asked us some questions, but no assistance lent,
Which fill'd our bosoms with despair, and caused us
relent.
Despairing now of all relief, and wet from top to toe,
Without a bite of food to eat for seven days did go;
Our tongues were parch'd with thirst, not a drop of
drink we had,
Excepting the salt water which made us raging mad.

A young man named Ferrier, among the rest did die,
A Female Passenger on board who loved him tenderly
Shriek'd loud with agony while o'er his corpse she stood
And  took a knife to cut his throat—we drank his
reeking blood !

At last we were reduced unto that awful state,             
That we did feed on human flesh our hunger was so
For those poor souls who died on board their bodies
we did eat,
And when we sat and ate it we thought it very sweet.

Come all you thoughtless young men a warning take
by me,
O never leave your happy land to plough the raging sea
For I have ploughed the raging main for nineteen
years and more,
And now I'm cast adrift to starve upon my native shore

He that rules the raging main to us has sent relief, 
The Bologna frigate picked us up in a state of dread-
ful grief,
At Portsmouth we were land, the six that did remain
Returned to our native land, to our tender friends againTAY

BRIDGE.

CHRISTMAS   Time  while  mirth
abounded .
Thro' the country far and wide,
Happy homes are turned to sadness,
Dear friends in   death  lay side by
side by side
Young and old upon the railway,
In that fatal train that day.
Little thought to death were going,
From this life they've passed away.

Refrain.

Tay Bridge gave way the  train went
hurling,
Down into the deadly deep,
Just a crash and all was over,
Many there in death now sleep.

Mothers with there little infants.
Fathers sons and sweethearts true
Laugh'd and jok'd so free together,
as along the rails they did  pursue,
No  thought of   danger  was among
them.
Thinking of old Chistmas cheer,
All was merry and light-hearted,
Returning home they had no fear.

That Sabbath night  while the storm
was raging.
The  Edinburgh train  went on its
way.
Watch'd by a few who felt the danger
Ason Tay Bridge she steamed away
Sparks of fire they saw ascending.
While down went crashing, bridge
and train,
Into the river smash'd to pieces,
Buried in the watery main.

At the  railway stations friends were
waiting,,
For the arrival of the train,
but when the news to them was bro-
ken
It filled their hearts with grief and
pain.
Mothers cried "Give me my children"
Fathers "shed a silent tear,
Brothers, sisters, friends & sweethearts
Wept for those they lov'd so dear.

Many now are sad and lonely,
Thinking of a poor dear friend,
Little orphans now are weeping,
For their parents fearful end,
None of us can tell the moment,
When from this earth we'll have to
go,
Those poor souls little thought of
dying ,
In that fatal train below.THE  TAY  BRIDGE

DISASTER.

AIR.—The Battle."

In this gay and festive season,
We must deplore the loss of life,
Human beings endowed with reason,
Bent on pleasure, not on strife,
Suddenly life is taken from them,
In a moment they are swept away,
Death has swiftly came upon them,
At the railway bridge on the River Tay.

CHORUS.

The storm had burst the bridge asunder,
The railway  train was swept away,
The passengers above one hundred,
Were drowned in the River Tay

The bridge, two miles across the river,
Was built for railway trains to go,
'Twas thought to be an example clever,
To travel above where the waters flow,
The stormy wind caused this destruction,
It caught the bridge and blew it down,
The train was capsized in the river,
And every human soul was drowned.

The accident  occured like lightning,
In a moment the train was dashed below,
The grasp of death around them tightening,
No mortal can their feelings know,

Near one hundred human beings,
In the frozen water lay,
Life from them too surely fleeting,
On that fatal Sabbath day.

Men and women, and dear children,
Lay in the river's icy bed.
We all must say may God be with them,
And bless the poor ill-fated dead.
They did not dream that death was near  them,
But that, alas, we never know,
The gates of death were beneath, them,
In the water ninty feet below.

The station was besieged by thousands,
Waiting there with bated breath,
The disaster all their fears arousing,
For their dear friends lying cold in death,
There's young and old among the missing,
And a sailor just returned from sea.
By this calamity so distressing,
Hurried into eternity.

May heaven bless our fellow creatures,
Lying in the river Tay,
With bruised and distorted features,
Now their lifeless bodies lay,
Their holiday that day was over,
Their friends and homes they'll see no more,
Husband and wife, and maid and lover,
Lost their lives on that dark shore.Account of that Destructive Calamity
which occured at the Broomielaw on
Tuesday evening, When the ice broke
the Mooring to which the vessels were
attached, and about forty vessels were
sent adrift runnirig and knocking each
other to pieces, and a number went
down.   The number of lives lost has
not been ascertained Such a calamity
never before occurred in the River Clyde.

(From the Glasgow Free Press of this day).

GLASGOW, 9th feb. 1831.

Our harbour, was yesterday, the scene of one of the most de-
structive and fatal occurrences, we fear, that has ever been wit-
neseed in this part of the country. Ahout half-past four o'clock,
P. M. the floating ice in the river had accumulated to such an ex-
tent against the upper tier of Vessels moored at the south side of
the river, as to break the iron pail to which they had been faste-
ed, and the strength of the current bearing them towards the cen-.
tre of the stream, the whole of the shipping on that side of the.
river were speedlly set adrift, together with nearly an equal num-
ber, with which they came in colision, on the opposite side of the
river. The rapid state of the stream, and the unexpected nature
of the event, rendered the joint exertions of Mr Johnston, the
Harbour-Master, and the united efforts of the crews of the ship
ping almost entirely., futile in .preventing damage. The floating
shipping quickly drifted past, the quay, sinking or taking with it
rafts of timber, boats, and every obstacle opposing its progress.
A gentleman, who arrived at the quay at a late hour last night,
informs us that the river from the Broomielaw, as far as Cart, a
distance of about seven miles, was covered with floating wreck.-
The following  essels, we are informed, are among the number
that were adrift:—George sloop, of Greenock, Campbell, master.
Janet, lighter, of do. Baxter—Lady Margaret, sloop of do. Leitch.
Mary, do. of Glasgow,.M'Kinlay—Columbus, schooner, of ditto,
Howison, with loss of mast and windlass—Vigilant, brig, belong-
ing to Grangemouth—Mary Graham ; schooner, of Airth, Cowan,
Hug'h Crawford, smack, of Greenock—James, gabert, of ditto,
M'Intyre—Margaret and Grizzel, do, of do.— Ann, ditto of ditto,
M'Kurrach—Royal Oak, do. of Dumbarton—Friends, schooner,
of Stromness—Mary, sloop, of Alloa—Neptune, smack, of Liver-
pool—Samson, sloop, of Greenock—-Margaret lighter, Greenock,
Margaret, lighter, do. Campbell—Leven, do. Glasgow—Christian,
sloop, Greenock, M'Arthur, with her stern stove in—Runcorn,
schooner,Chester, with windlass and chain broken—Galston and
irvine, brig, Troon, was brought up with some damage, STEAM
BOATS—The Argyle—Countess of Glasgow—Highland Chieftain.
Sultan—Ben-Nevis—Maid of Islay. The following vessels are
sunk:--James, sloop, Greenock, Smith—Elizabeth,smack, Camp-
belton, sunk and dismasted at the Quay, cargo discharging—He-
len, smack, Greenock, with a general cargo, upset-—James, schoo-
ner strangford, loaded with coals, outward bound, went down
near the Slip Dock—A Highland wherry. The total number of
vessels sunk and adrift is said to be about 40. We have been un-
able to ascertain how many  lives, if any, were lost, as no names
nor any  particulars were authenticated last night, except that it
was currently reported that part of the crew of the James schoo-
ner had been .drowned.

The damage done must have been very extensive, as a great
quantity of goods have been lost, independent of the damage done
to the veesels. The channel, which is so confined, vessels now
 lying on both sides, was the principal cause of so much destruc-
tion taking place, as they could not keep clear of each other.

The thaw still continues, and the inhabitants of Bridgegate and
some of the closses in the Saltmarket, were roused from their
slumber, by the approach of the watery element, and had to make
their escape for their lives, A number of cattle were extricated 
from their perilous situation; and driven to places of security. It
was lamentable to see some of the persons who made their escape
from this scene of danger, cold, wet and houseless, not knowing
where to find an asylum. It was lucky for them, though the night
was wet, that the air was very moderate.

Wm. Carse, Printer.RESPITE

FOR

William Grieve.



An Account of a Respite for Fourteen Days having
arrived for WILLIAM GRIEVE, who lies under sentence
of Death in Edinburgh for Rape, and who was to
have been Executed this day (Wednesday); to-
gether with a copy of original VERSES on the occa.
sion.

THIS unfortunate man WILLIAM GRIEVE, now under sen

tence of Death for Rape, and who was to have been executed
this day, (Wednesday, the 3d April, 1833,) has been respited for
fourteen days, until certain facts which have transpired since his
condemnation shall be investigated. It is very currently reported
that the principal witness on the trial has made very important dis-
closures, which is expected will have the effect of giving an entirely
different complexion to the case, and may ultimately lead to the
liberation of the unfortunate man. An examination into the cir-
cumstances took place on Saturday last in Haddington, for the pur-
pose of eliciting the supposed new facts of the case, which we sin-
cerely hope will prove favourable to Grieve, as it seems to be the
general wish of the public at large, who have known or heard par-
ticularly of his awful situation.

On the respite having been communicated to him by the proper
authorities, he is reported to have broke forth into transports of
joy and gratitude as soon as with decency he could do so, ejaculat-
ing almost incoherent expressions of gratulations and thanks to our
gracious Sovereign and his Council for the boon bestowed on him.
On hearing of the above gratifying intelligence, an ingenious poeti-
cal correspondent of ours penned the following EFFUSIONS, as if
they were written by Grieve himself, of which we have obtained a
Copy:—

The Heart-felt Gratulations of William Grieve, on
getting a Respite for Fourteen Days.

Friends of the weaker vessel,

My thanks I give to you,
And shou'd I ever carry more,

To you I will prove true.
Live stock is not easy carried,

Which Nature must give in ;
What wou'd come o'er the cart, dear friends,

Wou'd it lose the RACKIN PIN.

Six glass o' Whisky she partook,

As we were on the road ;
I was to blame for giving such,

Which brought me to the GAD.

Had I but thought upon a plan,

To see her rightly booked,
I wou'd have bound her hand and foot,

But my book I ne'er looked.

I promise and I now declare,

By a' the powers aboon,
I'll never have live stock again,

I'll rather sell auld shoon.

But since my King has been so kind,

And a' the powers about him,
Speak ill o' him, by honest Jove,

I'd tak' my whip and whip him.

O gin I had my horse and graith,

And whip hung o'er my shouther,
I'd die upon the road, dear friends,

Or eat my horses fother.

I'll ne'er again have living stock

But my dear honest wife,
For she is true, and she is mine,

And will be while I've life.

Francis M'Cartney.........One Penny.CORRECT COPY, WITH FULL PARTICULARS.

DREADFUL

ACCIDENT, 

AND 

LOSS OF LIFE.

A Full, True, and Particular Account of that Dreadful  Accident
which occurred in this City on  Saturday afternoon, by the Fall-
ing in of a House in  Picardy Place,   when  crowded with com-
pany of the first  respectability attending  the  sale of the late
Lord Eldon's  Pictures,-Giving the full particulars of that me-
lancholy catastrophe, with the names of the unfortunate sufferers.

The sale of the Paintings belonging to the late Lord Eldon was
resumed for the third day, at one o'clock on Saturday last, in the
back drawing-room, on the second flat, in his Lordship's house,
No. 16. Picardy Place; when a company of about 150 had assem-
bled, among whom were from 12 to 14 ladies. The sale was pro-
ceeding with great spirit, when, at about half past two, the greater
part of the floor instantaneously gave way, and precipitated the
company into the flat below.

Such was the suddenness of the catastrophe, that not even a
warning was given by the cracking of the upholding joists ; and the
first intimation that the company received of their danger, was
their consciousness of having commenced a descent.

The first intimation which the people on the street received,
was one or two gentlemen rushing out at the front door, with blood
on their faces and covered with dust The clouds of dust which
burst from the door and windows, made it appear as if the house
was on Fire. A crowd was quickly attracted to the spot, who, on
learning the melancholy catastrophe, immediately broke open the
room-door, and set about extricating the unfortunate sufferers,
many of whose clothes were torn to tatters, and so covered with
dust that their features could scarcely be recognised.

About eight or ten feet of the floor near the north window did
not go down, and several persons who were standing in that part of
the room escaped. Mr Winstanley, the auctioneer, on the first
symptom of the floor giving way, laid hold of the mantle-piece,
but lost his grasp, and fell down among the other sufferers. His
clerk was more fortunate; he had also clung to the mantle-piece,
and retained his hold till relieved by a ladder.

On removing a chest of drawers, Alexander Smith, Esq. banker,
was found lying below it. He was conveyed into the front room,
when it was observed he had received a severe contusion on the
forehead, and several medical gentlemen being present, they at-
tempted to bleed him, but life was extinct. It is supposed he had
gone down among the first, and that his death was caused by con-
cussion of the brain, occasioned either by a blow from the corner
of the hearth-stone, or from the end of one of the beams. No
other person received any fatal injury, but we learn that the fol-
lowing gentlemen were bruised  though, we are happy to state, all
doing well, viz. Lord Moncrieff slightly; Mr Sivewright of Meg-
getland, slightly ; Mr Marjoribanks of  Marjoribanks, slightly; Dr
Maclagan, injury in the knee ; George Thomson, Esq. Trustees
Office, very severe blow in the chest; W. S. Watson, Esq. severe-
ly injured ; J. F. Williams, Esq three of his ribs broke ; James
Lang, Esq. W.S., severely hurt; Mr Ross, junior, of Inverleith
Row, leg fractured and ancle dislocated ; Mr Lorimer, merchant,
Elm Row, severely injured ; Mr Stewart, of the Custom-house,
and Mr Wright, auctioneer, much hurt: and Mr Younie, severe-
ly bruised. Mrs Keay of Snaigow, slightly hurt; and Mrs John
Anderson, junior, South Bridge, severely injured. We understand
that, had it not been that the carpet of the room broke the fall, a
number of lives would have been lost.

The cause of the accident was the breaking of a large beam
which extended across the centre of the room, and supported the
flooring. It appears to have been insufficient from the first, and
had joined to it a piece of wood by means of an iron bolt and screw,
which only served still farther to weaken it, for the bolt passed
through a large knot in the wood, and thus the beam was liable to
give way whenever there was any great weight on the floor.DREADFUL

Collision ! !

One Hundred and Twenty-two
Lives Lost!

A full and particular Account
of the loss of the Ship Go-
vernor Fenner, with Emi-
grants for America, which
took place off Holyhead,
on Saturday Morning last,
when 122 Men, Women
and Children lost their lives.

I t is our painful task to have to record one of the
most melancholy disasters which, of late years, has
taken place in the channel, and which has been
accompanied by the loss of not less than one hun-
dred and twenty-two men, women and children.

The American ship Governor Fenner, Captain
Andrews, which sailed hence on Friday, at noon,
for New York, came in contact, on the following
morning, at two o'clock, off Holyhead, with the
Nottingham, steamer, from Dublin to this port.
The ship struck the steamer amidships. So great
was the force of the collision, that the ship's bows
were stove in, and, in a few minutes from the time
of the vessels coming in contact, she sank, the
captain and the mate being the only persons, out
of 124 souls on board, who saved their lives. The
Nottingham was dreadfully shattered, but, having
been struck in her strongest part, the collision was
not fatal to her.

The passengen were all below in their berths
when the collision between the ship and the steamer
took place. The shock caused by it would, of
course, rouse even those who might have been
asleep. No doubt they would make a rush towards
the deck : the interval, however, which elapsed be-
rween the shock and the sinking was so short,
scarcely five minutes, that very few, if any could
have succeeded in reaching it; so that, in all pro-
bability, most of them perished in their berths.
The mate, we understand, had been married a few
days only before the ship's sailing on her voyage:
the captain had given her a berth with her husband
in the cabin. When the fate of the ship became
inevitable, he attempted to run aft to rescue his
wife. Time failed him—the instinct of self-preser-
vation became strong—he sprang up the shrouds,
and reached the steamer, as we have already stated,
by jumping from the foreyard-arm.

The Nottingham, which now lies on the east side
of the Clarence Dock, was yesterday visited by
thousands of curious spectators. Her starboard
side is a complete wreck ; even the houses on the
deck adjoining are shivered to fragments. The
Head animals, cows and sheep, covered the deck,
and presented a shocking sight, most of them hav-
ing been disembowelled by the concussion which
caused their death.—From the Edinburgh Obserwer,
Tuesday, 23d February, 1841.DREADFUL

DEATH

OF

ELEVEN    SOLDIERS

BELONGING TO THE ARTILLERY.

Full, True, and Correct Account of the Explosion
of the Powder Magazine, at Gibraltar, on the
27th December last, when Eleven Soldiers be-
longing to the Garrison were blown up 300 feet
in the air, with an account of their dreadful and
horrid Death, most of them being shattered to
pieces, also an account of the number of men
bruised and wounded.

Extract of a letter from a corporal of the 42d
regiment, to James Bryce, hosier, Lanark, father
of me of the unfortunate young men, killed at
Gibraltar on the 27th Dec. last.—" It is with
heartfelt  regret that I acquaint you of the death
of your worthy and much lamented son, William,
which happened here on the 27th Nov. last, by
one of the most dreadful accidents that ever was
witnessed. He was one of a party of men order-
ed for great-gun practice, which practice was to be
from an excavated gallery in the north front of the
rock, at a target on the plain below.

The practice had just begun, as there was only
one gun fired when the dreadful event took place.
It is supposed that a spark from the gun fired, had
found its way through another gun-port, into a
portable magazine, containing about 120 pounds
of powder : when, horrible to relate, the whole ex-
ploded. The effect was instantaneous. Eight of
the unfortunate party were instantly forced out at
the two gun-ports, where they had placed them-
selves to watch the shot. One of these was your
son. He was the last of the eight that came out;
All of them were quite dead when taken up. No-
thing else could be expected, as, besides the effect
of the fire upon their bodies, the fall could not be
less than three hundred feet. Their clothes were
burned to ashes, and their faces, heads, and every
part exposed, were quite black.

Some of them were prodigiously shattered.
Their legs, thighs, and arms, were broken in many
places. One man had his head severed from his
body. Three more were killed inside, and seven
or eight wounded.

On the 29th, they were interred with military
honours. The band of the 43d regiment conduc-
ted them to their last resting place, and thus closed
the career of eleven of the cleverest men in that
department of the service, in this garrison.

The implement with which your son wrought
was firmly fixed in his grasp after the vital spark
had for ever fled.

John Campbell, Printer, Edinburgh.Fearful Accident!

Four Lives Lost.

A Full and Particular Account of a most dreadful
circumstance which happened on Tuesday the 18th
February instant, in consequence of the escape,
from Wombwell's Menagerie, of the celebrated
Lion, Wallace, and a large Tigress, by which me-
lancholy accident, Four Human Beings were de-
stroyed !!!

A melancholy accident occurred at Wombwell's Menagerie, in con-
sequence of the lion, Wallace, and a large tigress escaping from the
caravan at Worksworth, on Tuesday night last, on the way to New-
haven fair. It appears that the drivers were putting the vans into
the yard of the White Lion Inn, when a carriage, laden with timber,
came in contact with the one in which the celebrated lion Wallace,
who contended with and defeated the dogs at Warwick, and a very
large tigress, were kept, and staved in the whole side of the vehicle.
Every pains possible were taken to prevent the beasts obtaining their
liberty, by repairing the van as well as circumstances would permit,
and by closing the gates of the yard ; but in the course of the night,
the beasts, being by nature restless, by some means removed one of
the broken pannels, and succeeded in making their escape by the
back yard into the fields, where the tigress attacked a number of
sheep, and killed three. The lion, finding himself at liberty, was by
no means idle, but falling in with some cows belonging to Mr Wil-
son, killed one, and severely wounded two others. The bleating of
sheep, the lowing of the cows, and the roaring of the lion, aroused
the keepers and several of the inhabitants, when instant pursuit was
made by the whole body in order to kill, or, if possible, to retake
them. They first discovered the lion about three or four fields dis-
tant, seeding on the cow which had fallen a victim to his unresisti-
ble fury. They immediately fronted him as well as their fears
would admit, and several shots were fired, though contrary to the
orders of the keeper, by which the lion was severely wounded.
The infuriated animal suddenly rushed upon a man who was at
some distance from him, and before assistance could be rendered,
he unfortunately killed him. He then dashed into a cow-shed,
where, by the well-known voice of the keepers, and their able ma-
nagement, he was secured, and lodged in a place of safety without
further mischief. The party then went in pursuit of the tigress,
which had taken another direction, and had fallen in with some
persons going to work at the brickfields.

The animal attacked a woman with a child in her arms, and a
boy of about 11 years of age, all of whom were killed before assis-
tance arrived. On the party coming up they were horror-struck at
the spectacle. Every exertion was made to secure the animal, but
it was not before she was so dangerously wounded as not to be ex-
pected to recover, that that object could be effected. On the fol-
lowing day an inquest was held, when, after a patient investigation,
a verdict of Accidental Death was returned, deodand £10 on the
beasts. Too much praise cannot be given to Mr Wombwell on the
promptness he displayed on hearing the melancholy accident. He
expressed the utmost concern, ordered the funerals of the sufferers
to take place at his expense, and promised to make good all damages
arising from the melancholy event.—Northampton Herald.

The following paragraph, which is of a different character from
the above, we copy from this day's Observer, as being rather a
ludicrous circumstance:—

STRANGE BED-FELLOW.—On the morning of Saturday week, an
old woman, residing in a house on the Castle Hill, was unspeaka-
bly surprised, on awakening from her night's rest, to find a strange
animal lying at her back,with one of its paws laid over her shoulder.
Screaming with affright, she left her bed, and seizing a towel, she
beat it with all her might, when, with one bound, it sprung to the
farthest corner of the room, and at length took refuge in another
bed which stood in the same apartment. When the poor woman
had a little recovered from her alarm, and had dissipated the idea
that it was a visitor from the nether regions, she remembered that
a collection of wild beasts were at present exhibiting on the
Mound, and began to suspect that her visitor belonged to the num-
ber. She immediately went and called upon Mr Wombwell, when
it was discovered that one of the kangaroos had made its escape
during the night, and going up to the Castle Hill, had found this
poor woman's door open, and, upon examination, finding that it might be as com-
pletely accommodated beside her as in its own den in the menageric, betook itself
to rest, which, however, was broken in upon in the morning in the manner we have
mentioned. The kangaroo was returned to Mr Wombwell, who handsomely re-
munerated the woman for its night's lodgings.  [MENZIES, Printer.



FIRE.

An account of that dreadful and destructive Fire that
took place in Leith this morning, when the enten-
sive Steam Mills on the Shore were burned to the
ground, besides a number of other houses and pro-
perty amounting to about £30,000, besides a num-
ber of persons severely hurt.— The particulars cor--
rectly given by an eye witness.

DREADFUL AND  DESTRUCTIVE    FIRE    IN   LEITH.—------

This morning about three o'clock, those extensive pre-
mises situated at the back of those leading up the Broad
Wynd, lately built for the purpose of meal steam mills,
took fire,     A   short   time after   the conflagration was
discovered, the Leith and Battery engines were prompt-
ly on  the spot, and   a terwards a numqer of  engines
from Edinburgh, under the  direction of Mr Paterson.
So dreadful did the  fire rage, that although these en-
gines   were  plentifully supplied with   water and ably
managed, yet it was found impracticable to entinguish
the raging element until  the whole range of buildings
were burned to the ground. It is impossible to describe
the terrific yet grand, we may even  say sublime effect
that the flames, while they burst at  intervals in large
columns, had upon the surface of the sea, while fleaks
of burning embers threatened destruction to the build-
ings around.

The following, account of this destructive  conflagration. is given in  

a  letter by an eye witness,

About midnight I was alarmed by a bright light in
my bedroom, and on getting Up, I perceived from the
window as if the whole buildings on the Shore were in
ftames. On getting out I found that those extensive
steam mills occupied by Messrs George Goodlet &;Co.
were in a blaze. The engines belonging to Leith and
the Artillery Fort were alertly on the spot, and were
assisted shortly after by a number of powerful engines
from Edinburgh; but so rapid did the fire make ground,
that it was out of the power of mortal exertions to keep
it down. About 4 o'clock nearly the whole of the in-
habitants were turned out, who stood motionless, gaz-
ing with fear and anxie y at the sublime and terrible
elevastation going on. The tide was nearly ful, and the morning
dark, which made the sp ctacle truly magnificient and awful. The
reflection of the flames upon the sea, which sparkled at every wave,
nad a very imposing effct. By 6 o'clock the flames were seen
bursting from every window, of which there are are several hund-
reds in the premises, which are s ven stories high. Shortly after
the flames commmunicated with the east side of the Broad Wynd,
which has comminted considerable devastation, and is not yet (10
o' clock) extinguished.

Several men engaged   in extinguishing the fire  were hurt by the
falling of the ruins,and it is said that one man was  killed.
Besides the total destruation of the mills, those extensive premises in
St Bernard Street, belonging.to Messrs Atichison and Company, were
merchants, were consumed to the ground.    I am happy to say they are insured.

This forenoon nothing but the are walls of the mills were to be
seen, part of which to the south has fallen in, and great fears are en-
tertained that the chimney stalk, which is  of considerable bright,.
will come down.                                                                

Forbes & Co,Printers, 171, Cowgate,                     Horrible Shipwreck !

A Full, True and Particular Account of the Melancholy Loss of the British Convict Ship AMPHI-
TRITE, on the evening of Saturday last, the 31st August, 1833, off Boulogne, when 108 Female
Convicts, 12 Children, and 13 Seamen met with a watery grave, in sight of thousands, none
being saved out of 136 Souls but Three !—Taken from this day's Observer.

BOULOGNE-SUR-MER, 1st Sep. 1833.—

The horrible event which is announced
by the title to this letter has, I assure
you, filled the town with dismay, and
must lead to a most narrow and rigid
investigation.    I cannot attempt to de-
scribe the affliction not only of the En-
glish, but the French, at this most dis-
tressing event, and I only express the
general opinion when I say that  the
British public demands that an inquiry
be instituted   into the   conduct of all
parties concerned in this deplorable af-
fair.   The Amphitrite convict ship sail-
ed for New South Wales from Wool-
wich on the 25th August (this day week.)
Captain  Hunter was  the commander ;
Mr Forester, the  surgeon;   and there
were 108 female convicts, 12 children,
and a crew of 16 persons.    The captain
was part owner of the vessel.    When
the ship arrived off Dungeness, the gale
of the 29th began.   On Friday morning,
the captain hove the ship to, the gale be-
ing too heavy to sail.   The vessel was a-
bout three miles to the east from Bou-
logne harbour on Saturday at noon, when
they made land.    The captain   set the
topsail and mainsail, in hopes of keep-
ing her off shore.    From 3 o'clock she
was in sight off Boulogne, and certainly
the sea was most heavy and  the  wind
extremely  strong ;   but no pilot boat
went out to her, and no life boats  or
other assistance were despatched.   I ob-
served her from 3 o'clock till half-past 4
in the afternoon, when she came round
into Boulogne harbour and struck on
sands.    By 4 o'clock it was  known  to
be a British ship ; but some said it was
a brig, others said it was a  merchant
vessel, though all said it was  English.
It appears that three men who have been
saved out of the crew—all the rest hav-
ing perished—that the captain ordered
the anchor to be let go, in hopes of
swinging round with the tide.   In a few
minutes after the  vessel  had gone a-
ground, multitudes rushed to the beach,
and a brave French sailor, named Pierre
Henin, who had already received the
thanks of the Humane Society of Lon-
don, addressed himself to the captain of
the port, and said he was resolved to go
alone, and to reach the vessel, in order
to tell the captain that he had not a mo-
ment to lose, but must, as it was low
water, send all his crew and passengers
on shore.    You will recollect, that up to
the time of her running aground, no
measure was adopted, and the captain
was not warned from shore of her dan-
ger.    As soon as she had struck, who-
ever, a pilot boat commanded by Fran-
cois Heuret, who had, on many occa-
sions, as pilot of your Standard's express
boats, shown much courage and talent,
was despatched, and by a little after 5
came under her bows. The captain of the
vessel refused to avail himself of the as-
sistance of Heuret and his brave com-
panions, and when a portion of the crew
proposed going ashore the captain pre-
vented them.    Two of the men saved
stated they knew the boat was under

the bows, but the rest were below mak-
ing up their bundles. The crew then
could have got on shore, and all the un-
fortunate women and children. When
the French boat had gone, the surgeon
sent for Owen, one of the crew, and or-
dered him to get out the long-boat.—
This was about half-past 5. The sur-
geon discussed the matter with his wife
and the captain. They were afraid to al-
low the prisoners to go on shore. The
wife of the surgeon is said to have pro-
posed to leave the convicts there, and to
go on shore without them. In conse-
quence of this discussion, no long-boat
was sent out. Three of the convict wo-
men told Owen that they heard the sur-
geon persuade the captain not to accept
the assistance of the French boat, on ac-
count of the prisoners who were on
board. Let us now return to Pierre
Henin.

The French pilot-boat had been re-
fused by the surgeon and captain—the
long-boat had not been put out, through
a disscussion as to saving the convicts—
and it was now nearly 6 o'clock. At
that time Henin went to the beach—
stripped himself—took a line—swam
naked for three quarters of an hour or
an hour, and arrived at the vessel a little
after seven. On touching the right side
of the vessel, he hailed the crew, and
said, " Give me a line to conduct you
on land, or you are lost, as the sea is
coming in. " He spoke English plain
enough to be understood. He touched
the vessel and told them to speak to the
captain. They threw (that is, some of
the crew, but not the captain or surgeon)
two lines, one from the stern and the
other from the bow. The one from the
stern he could not seize—the one from
the bow he did. He then went towards
the shore, but the rope was stopped.
This was, it is believed, the act of the
surgeon and captain. He (Henin) then
swam back, and told them to give him
more rope to get on shore. The captain
and surgeon would not. They then
tried to haul him in, but his strength
failed, and he got on shore. You per-
ceive, then, that up to this moment also,
the same obstacle existed in the minds
of the captain and of the surgeon. They
did not dare, without authority, to land
the convicts, and rather than leave them
on board, or land them without such
authority, they perished with them. But
who could have given this authority ?
The British Consul is of course the re-
ply. Did he do so ? No. Why not ?
We shall see hereafter.

To return to the narrative of events.
The female convicts who were battened
down under the hatches, on the vessel
running aground, broke away the half
deck hatch, and frantic, rushed on the
deck. Of course they entreated the cap-
tain and surgeon to let them get ashore
in the long-boat, but they were not lis-
tened to, as the captain and surgeon did
not feel themselves authorised to liberate
prisoners committed to their care. About
seven o'clock the flood tide began, The



crew, seeing that there were no hopes,
clung to the rigging. The poor 108
women and 12 children remained on
deck, uttering the most piteous cries.
The vessel was about three quarters of a
mile English from shore, and no more.
Owen, one of the men saved, thinks that
the women remained on deck in this
state about an hour and a half! Owen
and four others were on the spars, and
thinks they remained there three quar-
ters of an hour ; but seeing no hope of
being saved, he took to swimming, and
was brought in a state of insensibility
to the hotel. Towsey, another man sav-
ed, was on a plank with the captain, he
asked who he was ? He said, " I am the
captain," but the next moment he was
gone. Rice, the third man, floated ashore
on a ladder. He was in the aft when
the other men took to the raft. When
the French pilot-boat rowed away, after
being rejected by the captain, he (Rice)
saw a man waving his hat on the beach,
and remarked to the captain that a gen-
tleman was waving to them to come on
shore. The captain turned away and
made no answer. At the moment the
women disappeared, the ship broke in
two. These are the facts of this awful
case. The French Marine Humane So-
ciety immediately placed hundreds of
men on the beach; and the office or
lodging being close to the shore, as soon
as the corpses were picked up they were
brought to the rooms, where I assisted
many of my countrymen in endeavour- 
ing to restore them to life. Our efforts
were fruitless, except in the case of the
three men, Owen, Rice, and Towsey. I
never saw so many fine and beautiful
bodies in my life. Some of the women
were most perfectly made ; and French
and English wept together at such a
horrible loss of life in sight of—aye,
and even close to, the port and town.
Body after body has been brought in.
More than 60 have been found; they
will be buried to-morrow. But, alas !
after all our efforts only three lives are
saved out of 136 ! ! !

Sunday, 1 o'clock.—The wind is some-
what abated, though not much. The sea
is running mountains high. We have
begun a subscription for the three fel-
lows who survive—I think we must add,
and for the widows and orphans of the
rest of the crew who expired. I send
you a copy of what has been done al-
ready. An old and steady friend of the
Standard (Mr Hawes) is doing all he
can.

This day week there will be charity
sermons for the poor creatures living,
and for the widows and orphans of the
dead. A portion of the subscription
will be applied towards rewarding the
pilot Heuret and Pierre Henin, who
did all they could towards saving the
vessel. The subscription will be super-
intended by a committee to be named
by the mayor of the town from the sub-
scribers.

Menzies, Printer, Lawnmarket.Letter from Kirkaldy.
DREADFUL
ACCIDENT
At Kirkaldy


By a Gallery in the Church falling down,
during the time the Rev, Dr Irving was
preaching to a crowed Audience where-
by a great number was killed and
wounded.

News of a most disagreeable nature  have reached
us from Kirkaldy this morning, and the following
letter was handed to us just now, by a respectable
Gentleman, who had received it from a friend by the
Steam Boat, upon making enquiry, we find that  some  
accident has actually  taken place last  night in that
quarter, and we give it publicity, hoping as the writer
says, that it is greatly exaggerated.

Kirkaldy; Monday Morning, June 16th 1828.
Sir-I embrace the opportunity of sending you   by
the first boat   this morning,   some   accounts   of  the
dreadful accident which happened last night, an  acci-
dent, which for its fatal and calamatious consequences,
is unparalleled  in the history of Kirkaldy.    It was in-
timated, latter end of last week, that the Rev. Mr
Erving was to preach in our church on Sunday evening,
which  intimation soon gained circulation   for   miles
round  Kirkaldy, and during Sunday   afternoon,   the
people  were seen  pouring  into   the  town  from   all
quarters.

Long before the stated hour, the Church  was filled
to excess, and hundreds could not gain admittance.
The service commenced, and nothing in the least in-
dicated or forwarned the awful catastrophe that fol-
lowed.   During the service however owing  to the
crowded state of the Gallery, a kind of continual mov-
ing was going on, such as some of those that were sit-
ting, rising up to accommodate those that had stood  
some length of time.   When service was near conclud-
ed, a sort of crackling noise was heard, which alarm-
ed the people, and  caused  a general  movement, and
awful to relate, at this moment of confusion, part of
the Gallery gave way, and fell with  a  crash   on  the
    devoted victims below.    A scene past describing now
took place, a general rush was made towards the doors
and many were hurt by being trampled on and press-
ed.    As soon as the accident was made known to  the
proper authorities, they rendered the greatest assist-
ance, those that were hurt were carefully lodged in
the  neighbouring  houses,   where  medical  assistance
was promptly got.

I have not been able to ascertain the exact  number
of those that ware hurt, as the town is still in  a state
of confusion, but report  says that there are   thirty
killed, besides many that is dangerously hurt; but I
hope   this   account is greatly exaggerated.    I  was
among the fortunate number that did not gain admit-
tance.    During the course of this day I will get every
information, and let you know.    I send this early in-
telligence to give you the satisfaction that there was
none  of our family there.

I am &c.LOSS

OF THE

Benlomond

Steam Boat!

A full and particular account of the
Loss of the Benlomond Stcam Boat,
in the Firth of Forth, this morning,
when on her passage from New haven
to Alloa and Stirling.

At 9 o'clock this morning, the Benlomond Steam
Boat left the Chain Pier with a full compliment of
passengers for Alloa, Stirling and intermediate Ports,
when a short time after leaving New haven it was
discovered that the Vessel was on Fire, the conster-
nation of the passengers, were, upon discovering
the fact may be better conceived than described, but
to do bare justice, we must say, that every one on
board behaved with the greatest propriety; the fe-
male part, particularly of whom there was a great
number on board, after the first alarm was over,
conducted themselves in a manner altogether praise-
worthy and submitted to the orders and instructions
of the Captain with the most scrupulous exactness.
The Captain and crew upon the first alarm being
given, used every exertion which skill and ingenu-
ity could suggest, to stop the ravages of the flames,
but without effect, for not with standing their utmost
efforts, the raging element attained the mastery.

We noticed two Gentlemen passengers who dis-
played the greatest intrepitdity and daring in their
attempts to suppress the flames, but their names we
were not able to ascertain.

The Vessel had now reached opposite to Cram-
mond when her situation was discovered by the
people on shore, who lost no time in sending off the
Boats to their assistance, and who succeeded in land-
ing the whole Crew and passengers safe.

We understand that the Benlomond Steam Boat
belonged to Messrs Wood, of Port Glasgow, and
Napier of Glasgow, two of the most enterprising
Steam Boat Proprietors in the West of Scotland,
and the public of this city must be aware that,
owing to their exertions, the fares from New haven
to Stirling by the Benlomond was reduced from
three shillings to sixpence each passenger.

Edinburgh:—Printed for Francis M'Cartney.

Minerva of Leith !



A Full and Particular Account of the Loss of the Brig
Minerva of Leith, belonging to Messrs Stenhouse,
bound from Dublin to Glasgow, with Grain, which
violently Struck on the Horse Island, off Ardrossan,
Ayrshire,   on   Tuesday   Morning   18th   December
1821, by which one of the Crew, Peter Porter, and
Three Passengers, were unfortunately Drowned ;
also, an Account of the Ingenious manner by
which the Master, Charles Gibbon, a Seaman, Mar-
tin Horn, and a Young Lad, John Campbell,
were Providentially Saved, with the Names, &c.
of those who were Drowned !

ON  Tuesday the 18th December 1821, the people of Ardrossan,
and the surrounding country, were thrown into much con-
fusion and painful feeling, by the loss of the brig Minerva of Leith,
she property of Messrs Stenhouse there, bound from Dublin to
Glasgow, with upwards of 70 tons of grain. About six o'clock in
the morning, the wind blowing very strong from the south, and
the sea running excessively high, she struck upon the Horse Island,
about a mile off the coast of Ardrossan. As soon as she was
observed from the shore, a pilot, with the Eglinton life-boat, and
ten men, immediately went to her assistance. On account of the
very high wind, and the tremendous breakers by which they were
assailed, they found it impossible to approach the wreck ; and but
for the ingenious suggestion of Alexander Reid, of the Mary Anne
of Irvine, to carry a fishing-boat across the Island, to which it was
moored, they could not have got to the wreck at all.

When they did approach it, it consisted of nothing but a rafter
or spars and deals, providentially kept together by the entangle-
ment of the sails and cordage ; and from this, where they had re-
mained four hours, they happily succeeded in rescuing from a
watery grave, though much exhausted, Charles Gibbon, the master,
Martin Horn, a seaman, and John Campbell, a lad ; Peter Porter,
the other who completed the crew, was drowned,

It would be gratifying if this paragraph could be concluded,
however serious the loss may be to the owners, by saying that the
vessel was a perfect wreck, and that the cargo was completely lost.
But, alas ! four other lives were lost ; one man, said to be a private,
Robert Clark, of the 78th regiment, who had purchased his discharge,
and was on his way home somewhere in Aberdeenshire, who slept
in the forecastle, was doomed to instant death the moment the vessel
struck. A woman, whose name is said to be Maddin, and who was
on her way to join her husband, about twenty miles from Glasgow,
with a fine child, a boy about three years old, also perished. Mrs
Ord, of the Dublin Circus, where she had left her husband, and
was proceeding to Glasgow on business, was the other sufferer.
                                                                                                                                                                                   
It must have been a heart-rending sight to see these poor creatures
sitting upon the deek, almost naked, and where they remained about
two hours contemplating their approaching fate! Maddin clinging
with one hand, and grasping her beloved child in her other arm to
her breast, till one tremendous effort of the raging ocean swept the
whole three into the immense abyss ! The Earl of Glasgow (whose
name must ever be coupled with all that is good as well as great)
kindly desired that every attention should be paid to the survivors,
who are comfortably put up at the Ardrossan Hotel ; and that every
were should be saken to prevent any smail remains of the vessel
from being plundered.

A female body has since been brought ashore, and from some pa-
pers found on her person, bearing the address of " Mrs Ord, No. 9.
Charlotte lane, Glasgow," it is persumed there is no mistake as to
the individual. A small Box containing the Master's papers has
also been found.-—"Ayr Advertiser."

PRICE ONE PENNY.MISER,

An account of Joseph Macwilliam the
Miser, who was burnt to death on the
13th June 1826, by accident, in Rose
Street, when upwards of L3OOO was
found in the cellar he inhabited  for
15 years, without either bed, chair or
table, and was observed to wear the
same clothes during that time, also an
account of his life.

The public are already aware from the public Prints, that a
man of the name of Joseph Macwilliam  was lately (13th ult.)
burnt to death in Rose Street.     He had been for  many  years a
gentleman's servant,   and   during  that time he was particularly
noticed as being of very penurious habits,  by his fellow servants,
and even then his clothing  was rather the worse of the winter
blast, and was often the theme   of merriment among his neigh-
bours.    He  has  latterly  occupied   a low   damp cellar in Rose
Street.    This wretched being absolntely  denied himself every
comfort and convenience of life,—not a bed, chair, or table was
in his  hovel.    How this wretched being  had accumulated  so
much property,  nearly £3000,   has not  yet been satisfictorily
explained.    It might  have   been  expected   that  his dwelling
would have contained a   mass   of rubish   which  he night have
collected during his   peregrinations,—but  it   was otherwise, for
even a pin   was  converted   into   money; when he had collected
abont double the quantity which is usnally sold for a halfpenny
he would sell them for the same money.    After the accident, the
place was searched,  when there were found banker's receipts for
the sum of £1499, 15s. 10d., besides the title-deeds of household
property exceeding  £1108 in   valne!    Mr  Cowie, hairdresser,
who lives immediately   above M'William's house,  has observed
that the miser wore the same outer garments for upwards of 15
years.MURDER



An account of the shocking case of Mrs Anderson
St Giles Street, Leith, found strangled to death in her
house, on Monday morning  last, with the apprehen-
sion of one of her neighbours, accused of having com-
mitted the diabolical murder; also an account of the
Dreadful destruction of Cromerty new jail by Fire, on

Monday night, when   shocking to   relate, the keys
of the Prison were lost in the confusion, and before
the door could be forced open, the prisoners (whose
horrid   cries were   heart-rending) were  burned to
death,  and   so   reduced   to ashes,  that   the  bodies
could not be known by their relations.
A shocking affair occurred in Leith on Monday morning last un-
der very suspicious   circumstances.    A  woman   of the name   of
ANDERSON, residing in Lowrie's Close, Giles Street,   had   been
drinking ou Sunday evening  with some 0f her neighpours,    with
one of whom she had a quarrel.    Shortly after retiring to her own
house, a disturbance was heard between her and her companion, the
latter it   is  and  was  over  and  to  the                 ANDERSON  whome   she  

left after having had a short scufle.

There was nothing more heard till next morning, when the ser-
vant of a gentleman in whose employ ANDERSON had occasion-

ally worked, called at her house and found the unfortunate wom-
an lying dead on the floor, with a great deal of coagulated blood
about her mouth and nostrils, which led to a belief that she had
been Murdered. On notice being given to the Police. the person
with with whom the deceased had quarreled was apprehended, and af-
terwards set at liberty, but has since been recommitted for further
examination,

It was discovered  thus morning  (Monday the 15th instant) be-
tween two and  three o'clock, that   the Newly  erected Jail   was on
fire.    When the alarm was given, only the Westmost room   was
in flames but some  delay took   place in  getting   the   Jailors to
open  the Prison.

Upon the arrival of the Turnkeys, the keys were, after some
coufusion, obtained—but owing to some mistake in dsicovering
the proper keys, the fire extended to the passage, and no access
could be obtained to the prisoners in that portion of the Jail,
and the consequence has been that GEORGE ALEXANDER, an
Architect, in Golspie, and ANGUS M'LEOD, Innkeeper, Ballin-
trade, both confined for debt, along with M'LEOD'S wife who
came on a visit to him on Saturday last, besides a great number
of other prisoners whose bodies could not be kuown, have all been
burnt to death.

t was truly horrifying to hear the cries of the wretched suffer-
ers for assistance before they had been suffocated by
the smoke, The delinquents who were confined in
the tower adjoining the jail were most of them saved
from the dreadful configration and allowed to go at
large The jail and Court House, with the exception
of  he Tower, are all burnt to the ground, and no part
of them saved there being no fire engines in the place.
The portraits of MR M'LEOD Sheriff of Rosshire,
and MR MURRAY Provost of Tain, which were
placed in the Court Room, were with difficulty rescued
from the flames free of injury. It was was believed
that the fire was occasioned by some ashes being
 placed in a wooden cinder bucket in the room where
the fire originated in which there was a considerable
quantity of straw which Ignited and gave rise to the
conflagration.

The bodies of ALEXANDER M'LEOD and his wife, have been
found in the ruins but neither of them can be distinguished they
are in such a mutilated state. Had the morning not been calm
ELLISON'S Hotel and Stables would also have been destroyed, as
well as the Office of the British Linen Company's Bank, but every
precaution has been made to prevent the fire from extending,
FORBES,and CO.PRINTERS, 171 COWGATEM U R D E R.

Full, True, and Particular Account of that most
Horrid Murder which was committed on New
year's Morning, in Dunbar Street. Canal Basin
Edinburgh, on the body of Mrs Calderhead
with a correct account of the apprehension of
the Murderers ; with an account of that awful
accident that happened on Saturday Morning,
in Milne's Court, Lawnmarket, when a woman
was burned to death.

Saturday being New Year's Day, it was usher-
ed in with all those scenes of mirth and jollity us-
ual upon such occasions in Scotland. But a time
of this kind rarely passes over, without some extra-
ordinary incident occurring to mar the happiness
and peace of some individual or family.

It is our painful duty to record an instance of
the fatal effects of people going from house to
house on New Year's Morning, when they ought
to have remained at home, and made themselves
happy with their family, and thereby shewing a
good example to the rising generation.

Murder is a crime of the greatest magnitude,
the bare recital of which, at all times, fills the mind
with horror. The circumstances attending the
commission of this Murder are of the most revolt-
ing description.

About four o'clock on New Year's Morning, a
most horrid and diabolical murder was perpetrated
in a house in Dunbar Street, near the Canal Basin,

Edinburgh__Mrs Calderhead, wife of Alexander

Calderhead, both of whom gained an honest livli-
by retailing potatoes through this town, and who
bore a very respectable character, entered a com-
pany in good health and high spirits, and was car-
ried out a. corpse. Two men, brothers, are in cus-
tody, on suspicion of being the Murderers. The
forehead of the unfortunate woman was cut and
bruised, and in the abdomen, from the lower part
upwards, there Was a wound through an extent of
about ten inches. Delicacy forbids us to be more
explicit. The unfortunate woman has left a fa-
mily of five children to deplore her untimely end.
The case is under investigation.

A WOMAN BURNED TO DEATH, ON
NEW YEAR'S MORNING.

On Saturday Morning an old woman in Milne's
Court, Lawnmarket, was found in her house, liter-
ally burned to a cinder. How the melancholy
event took place is uncertain ; but the remains of
her body were discovered about 8 o'clock, on Sa-
turday morning, by some individual who had call
ed to see her.

John Campbell, Printer, Edinburgh.

SECOND EDITION OF THE



DREADFUL

MURDER




AWFUL BEGINNING OF THE NEW YEAR.

A full,true, and particular Account of the most Horrid and Barbar-

Murder of   Mrs Calderhead,  wife.of   Alexander  Calderhead,

Potato  Dealer,   Dunbar Street,  in  Fountainbridge,  near the Canal

Basin, in the common stair leading to her house,  between three and

four o'clock this morning, while she was engaged in innocently wel-

coming in the New Year :And also of the apprehension of two young.

men, brothers, who charged with the comission of this dreadful

crime,-being another awful warning, in addition to the terrible  

piots some years ago, against the danger of keeping up the present

practice of beginning the New year.



     It is with the greatest pain that we announce to the public,that

notwith standing the generally peaceable manner in which the ushering

in of the New Year was conducted by the numerous and joyous parties

who,as is customary, pareded the street during the last night, the

year has commenced with theperpetration of a most horried and cruel

Murder, committed in the very midst of the festivities.

The forehead of the unfortunate woman was cut and bruised, and
there was a dreadful wound in the abdomen, reaching from the lower

part upwards,through an extent of about ten inches.

The victim of this dreadful crime was a Mrs Calderhead, wife of a
potato dealer, residing in Fountain Bridge, who, with his now mur-
dered wife, bad sat up to receive their New Year's visitors, and who

some time with them  drinking.

When these men went away, about three o'clock in the morning,
Mrs Calderhead took the candle and shewed  them down stairs.

In a short time afterwards, Mr Calderhead, on going to look for his
wife, found her at the foot of the stairs, a lifeless corpse !

The brothers, under these circumstances, have been apprehended on
suspicion. In the present stage of the matter, it would be improper

to mention their names.

The deceased was about forty years of age.

SECOND EDITION.------FURTHER PARTICULARS.

(From The Courant of this morning.)

Early on the morning of Saturday last, Mrs Calderhead, Dunbar
street; near Lochrin, came by her death under rather singular circum-

stances. In the morning,whena first-footing we believe she en-

countered two men on her own stair, between whom and herself there
had been some previous grudge. Words ensued, and were followed
by blows and kicks, and in the scuffle the unfortunate woman was
thrown down stairs to the flat below. Whether in the fall or from a ,
stab after she fell, it has not been exactly  ascertained, bbt she received
a wound in the abdomen, which caused such a lots of  blood  that she
died in a short time. Two men, labourer at the canal,are in custody,
supected of  being  concerned in this outrage. The deceased was well

known in Edinburg; she usually accompanied her husband in
hawking potatoes in a cart through the streets. she has left five
children.

POLICE COURT.

BEFORE  JAMES PATISON,  F.sq.,BAILIE

Two Gentleman; (brothers.) and an old  Lady, the keeper of 
lodging house, were charged by a hackney coach preprietor with for
cibly taking possession of his coach, at the Palace Yard, on the even
ing of the 19th. cart.

One of the defenders stated that he ought to have been the com

plainer,-and that after the present case was investigated he would

prefer a charge against the complainer. He then went on  to state
that on Sunday week he and his brother had dined in the New Town;
and in the evening they had engaged the coachman to drive them to
their lodgings at the foot of the Canongate. When they alighted the
complainer claimed  7s. 6d. as his hire ; but they (the defender
knowing  the regular fare to be 2s. 3d. refused to pay the complainer
any thing, and wished to know the number of his coach, which he
prevented them from learning, by placing his back against the door.
They (the defenders) then mounted  the dicky, with the intention
of detaining the coach. A scuffle then ensued, and one of them got
his cloke (which was entirely made of fur,) torn from the collar to the
foot.

The complainer denied the truth of the defenders' statement, and
.said that it could be proved by a man who had been on the dicky
with him at the time, but who was BOW it Dunkeld. He offered.
however, to pay the expense of bringing the man to Edinburgh. it
the case wero' continued for eight days. The complainer further
stated that he bad gone into the defenders' lodgings with the intention
of taking some article of furniture to pay his fare; but the landlaer.
becoming afraid .of her property, went OK and took the horses by the
head, and he was then' obliged to leave the house to  took after his
coach.

The case was continued.

Forbes and Owen, Printers, 136, High Street MURDER,   & C.

A full, true, and particular Account of the Murder of a child at Mus-
selburgh, yesterday morning; and of the apprehension of a woman
who had left the Edinburgh Charity Workhouse the day before,
and of her examination before the Magistrates, from the Courant
Newspaper of this morning.

Also, full, true, and particular account of the Fatal Loss of the Packet
Ship Boston, Captain Mackay, which was struck by Lightning on
her passage to Liverpool, with complete details of the terrific dest-
ruction of the Ship, the awful Sufferings of the Passengers and
Crew, and the Death of Miss Ansella Boag, a Passenger on Board

Early yesterday morning the body of an infant was found in a
quarry at the east end of the Links of Musselburgh, with evident
marks of its having been murdered, as it had several wounds about
the head and body ; it appeared to have been newly born, and  had no
clothes whatever upon it. A woman who had been observed near the
spot, was taken into custody and examined by the Magistrates. She
said she had left the Charity Workhouse, Edinburgh, the preceding
day ; she seemed either deranged, or under the influence of drink.-
The Magistrates have requested two respectable surgeons in Mussel-
burgh to make out a report of the body, previous to interment.

There was a small encampment of gypsies or tinkers near the same
place on Sunday last, and the cries of an infant were heard amongst
them. They have since removed.VERSES

On the  Melancholy  Death of JOHN WHITE,  his  WIFE, and
FOUR CHILDREN, who perished in the

Present Snow Storm,

Except one infant,  who was found sucking the breast of its
Dead Mother, near Pennycuick, on Wednesday morning last.

The fate of this unfortunate family has excited the greatest consternation in
the neighbourhood in which it happened. It appears that on the night before
they were found, that they were observed on the road going in the direction of
Pennycuick in a most deplorable condition, and had applied at several houses
for relief; in one tnstance, the man said he was a weaver from Paisley, and
had lately been employed in Glasgow. The snow on that night was ten feet
deep, and as two gentleman were out with their dogs on the following morning,
they discovered their lifeless bodies, and the youngest child clinging to the breast
of its mother. The infant was conveyed to a nurse, and is doing well. The
bodies of the suffererers were buried in the Church Yard on Friday.....The fol-
lowing are the Verses :—

ALL you who have a heart to feel,

Your fellow creatures woes,
Attend whilst I with acheing heart

A mournful tale disclose.
How six poor wanderers were forced

Not many nights ago,
To brave the raiging of the frost,

And face the drifting snow.

Christians shield at your door,
And do not frown upon the poor

Thro' Mid-Lothian the wand'rers roam'd

To beg their daily bread,
And heedless were to seek  A home,

Or lay their weary head ;
The night came on, their tatter'd clothed

But mock'd their shiv'ring irame,
The wind was high, and keenly froze,

The drifting tempest came.

The father's heart was full of grief,

The children loud did wail;
The mother vainly sought relief,

And sigh'd upon the gale.
Their hearts did fail, with grief & dread,

To feel the freezing blast,
At length,with joy,a neighbouring shade

Appear'd in view at last.

" Here we will rest," the father said,

" No father can we go,
" These children flocking at my side

" Are almost lost in snow;
" Come to my arms, dear children all,

" I'll strive to keep you warm ;
" And come, dear wife, behind me here,

" I'll shield you from the storm."

A lovely infant three months old,

Clung to its mother's side,
And though its little limbs were cold,

It drew the milky tide.
Hungry and faint they could not rest,

They rose to heaven a prayer,
That " He who feeds the ravens nest,

Would ease them of their care.

Again the storm came beating down,

And chilly was the breeze,
With wet and cold and weary limbs

The blood began to freeze,
Till death, the poor man's dearest friend

The kindest and the best,
Stretched out his kind and friendly arm

And closed their eyes in rest.

Early on the following day,

Some sportsmen took the field,
The dogs discovering where they lay,

The dreadful sight reveal'd.
The youngest had sutviv'd the rest,

Who every effort try'd,
from its dead mother's frozen breast;

To draw the milky tide,

All you that never felt a woe,

But what yourselves create,
For once a tender thought bestow

Upon their wretched fate,
Whose doom'd to suffer pain and grief

And thro' the world to roam,
Who never knew the dear relief,

That springs from home, sweet home;

Price One Penny,

Edinburgh:....Printed for James Docherty.An Account of the Trial and Sentence of D. M'INNES, Master, and
P. M'BRIDE, pilot,of the Comet steam-Boat before the High Court
of Admiralty, on Wednesday the 2lst December 1825.              

W EDNESDAY, December 21st, 1825, the Judge Admiaal Sin 
John Connell, sat in the chamber of the Second Division  
of the Court of Session, for the trial of Duncan M'Innes,  late mas-
ter, and Peter M' Bride, late pilot, of the Comet steam boat, accused
of culpable homicide, and also of culpable, negligent, and reckless 
command, charge, and steering of a steam boat, &c.    The criminal 
letters set forth that-                                                                   

"The said Duncan M'Innes, and Peter M'Bride, having proceeded
from Inverness in the said steam boat, called the Comet, with  the
intention of proceeding to Glasgow, and they having the direction,
guidance, and command of the said steam boat, the said Duncan
M'Innes being master thereof, and the said Peter M'Bride being pi-
lot, of the same: and having, late on the night of Thursday the
20th, or early on the morning of Friday the 21st of October, 1825,
arrived in the said steam-boat in the river or firth of Clyde, and at
a part thereof nearly opposite Kempock Point, in the shire of Ren-
frew ; and it being their particular duty to take care that the said
steam-boat should not come in collision with any other boat or ves-
sel, they did, nevertheless, both and each of them, or one or other
of them, culpably, and reckless of the consequences, and by their
extreme and culpable carelessness and inatention, and misconduct
in managing and directing the course of the said Comet steam-boat,
bring the said steam-boat in collision with the steam-boat called the
Ayr, whereby the said steam-boat was immediately sunk, and
whereby a great many persons, men, women, and children, to the
number of 62 or thereby, were drowned, and bereaved of life, and
were thus culpably killed by the said Duncan M'Innes and Peter
M' Bride," &c.

The criminal letters also charged them with having " culpably,
and reckless of the consequences, neglected to cause a light to be
affixed to the said steam-boat, and continuing to steer and direct
the said Comet steam-boat, without any such lights," &c. The
criminal letters were then read, and the parties called upon to plead,
when they both pleaded Not Guilty.

Defences were then put in for the pannels, in which they denies
the relevancy of the libel. They addmitted the loss of the Comet,
but not that it was caused by culpability or negligence on their
part. They might have erred in judgement, but they did not
admit that they had done so. In a case like that of the Comet and
Ayr, they said, the safety of the vessels did not depend upon the
attention of one of them in particular, but upon both; and if the
Ayr had taken its proper course, no collision could have taken place;
and if the master of that vessel had afterwards rendered what as-
sistance was in his power, the whole or most of those who were
lost, might have been saved.

Two objections were then stated on the part of the pannels, to
the relevancy of the indictment, but which were not sustained by
the Court, and an interlocutor, confining the charge to culpable
homicide, was then recorded.

A great number of witnesses were then examined for the prose-
cution, among whom were Thomas M'Clelland, master, Robert
Knox, pilot, and John M'Gregor, seaman, of the Ayr steam-boat, the
vessel that came in collision with the Comet, when that unfortunate
boat sunk. All of whose evidence tended to attach a good deal of
culpability to the conduct of Mr M'Innes, the master of the Comet,
in not having a light out at the time of the accident, nor a good
look-out a head, &c.                                         

The pannels' declarations were then read, in which M'Innes
stated, that he was master of a steam boat on the Clyde for may
years, and detailed the progress of the voyage of the Comet from
Inverness till she met the Ayr- He stated that there was a scarcity
of candles on board the Comet at that time, which was the cause
there were no lights hung out, and he considered therc was no
danger after they passed the Cloch, which they did before he left
the deck that morning. M'Bride's was nearly similar.

After which, several respectable witnesses were examined in ex-
culpation, ono of whom the Judge complimented in strong terms.
The Jury were then addressed by the Lord Advocate for the
crown, and by Mr Cockburn for the pannels, when the Judge
Admiral summed up the evidence at great length, reprobating in
strong language the conduct of the Ayr, and urging the necessity of
an example being made, to prevent a recurrence of similar accidents
by carelessnes. After which the Jury were inclosed, and ordered
to return their verdict on Thursday at Two o'clock.

Accordingly M'Innes was found Guilty by the Jury, on Thurs-
day, and M'Bride Not Guilty; when the former was sentenced to
three months' imprisonment in Greenock Jail, and the latter dis-
missed from the bar, after a suitable admonition.

Edinburgh: Printed for Wm. Cameron—Price One Penny.The Wreck of the
" Berlin!"

Or THE FATAL HOOK OF HOLLAND.

Air—"The Miner's Dream of Home."

Dark is the night, a hurricane blows,
And the waves like mountains loom,
As bravely the stately "Berlin" goes,
O'er the wild North Sea to her doom !
Her cabins are crowded with women and men,
And children of tender years ;
By a gallant captain and crew she's manned,
And a sturdy helmsman steers.

CHORUS—
In sight of the haven, in sight of the shore.
After braving the whole night through,
The wind and the waves that around her did roar,
Tho' failing her pride to subdue—
On the fatal Hook of Holland,
Storm driven, she strikes at last;
And her helpless burden of human souls,
Into the deep are cast!

Oh ! why do they face the fearful storm,
When the peril is all too clear?
Each life is precious—to someone on land,
Each soul in that ship is dear!
Oh ! many are there whose path is illumined
By the holy flame of Love ;
And some to the call of Duty respond,
As sad to their doom they move.

CHORUS—In sight of the haven, &c.

Mighty the efforts to succor them made
By the people who line the strand ;
But how few, alas! and how fearful the plight
Of those they bring safe to the land!
Then shame not to drop a soft tear for the lost,
As they lie in their watery grave ;
And stint not your praise of the rescuing band,
Tho' few be the lives they did save.

CHORUS—In sight of the haven, &c.  L. M.

Published at the Poet's Box, 181 Overgate, Dundee, Price 1d.
By Post 1½d.     The Trade supplied.