WONDERFUL

Account of a Woman who was buried alive, and who broke open the coffin while they were laying her in the grave, which so frightened the company that they fled in every direction; – also, a copy of the interesting Dream which she had in that state.

Chelmsford, Oct 4th 1821.

I arrived last evening about five o'clock, in this town, and strolling round the church-yard, I was attracted within the walls of the church by the appearance of a corpse, followed by an immense number of mourners of both sexes, who were paying their last respect to a deceased friend. While the funeral service was reading over the body, a noise was heard to proceed from the coffin, which for a moment arrested the clergyman and his auditors; but as the noise appeared to cease, the service was concluded, each individual being persuaded it must have proceeded from quite a different source than the coffin. Just, however, as the coffin was being led down into the tomb, the same sound as before issued from it, accompanied with a noise similar to the whelping of a puppy, when, in an instant, the enclosed person, by a sudden and violent effort, thrust off the lid of the coffin, with her arms hanging on each side, with eyes wide open and rolling in their sockets; at the frightened multitude assembled round, who fled in every direction, and could hardly be persuaded to return and relieve her from her cold and gloomy apartment. They, however, resumed their fortitude, and returned and helped her out of the grave. – When brought above ground, she appeared more frightened than hurt, and was borne back to her habitation on the very same bier which supported her to the ground. – I understand, from the surgeon who attended her, and whom I have seen this morning, that she has had a very good night, and is likely finally to recover. – She is a widow, and had she "slumbered in the arms of Death", would have left 10 children wholly unprovided for. – British Traveller.

The account she gives of her situation is one, which no person but one who has been in the same situation can have any idea of. – She had been complaining of a pain in her head a few days before she took to bed, and after being there a few hours, she fell into a swoon , and had several strange dreams of glimmerings of future days, the most remarkable of which was, that she had entered a large Hall, lighted with Gothic lamps, with a large table in the centre, at which sat a number of Kings, Queens, Dukes, Marquises and Lords, with a vast concourse of ladies of distinction, who vied with each other who should accommodate her best. – In the midst of this high assemblage, stood a lady of exquisite beauty, and who seemed to command the attention of the assembly nobility, and who addressed them thus: – I was a wondered upon earth, and travelled from city to city, with few friends to smooth the rugged path of life, which I found strewed all over with thorns and briers, and having nothing to endear me in my wearisome days and restless nights, I repaired to this Gothic Hall where I now find so many Nobles assembled. – But, be hush'd thou monitor of former days, and forget all those troubles and trials which have so often changed by countenance and caused tears of grief to flow. – I now am happy, and your enjoyments and mine will be paramount to all our former trials. – This concluded her speech, and in an instant all was dark as midnight. She now awake, and found herself in a situation which she could not describe, till she again saw the light of heaven, and found herself laid in the grave. The people who attended her, from her want of food, and seeing no motion in her body, considered her dead, and had her conveyed to the dust, where the above wonderful change took place.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.THE GOAST OF

BENJAMIN BINNS.

THIS  POPULAR  SONG     CAN   BE  HAD   AT   THE  POET 'S   BOX,

OVERGATE     DUNDEE.

Keep your seat if you please, and don't be afraid,
I am only a ghoast, a poor  harmless   shade;
I would not hurt any one here if I could, 
And you could't do me  much  harm  if  you  would,
Knives will not stab me  shots through me fly,
But oh! the experiment  please do not try;
It's not for yself that I care not at all,     
I' m afraid you might damage the wall
Spoken-For-----

                         CHORUS.

I'm the ghost of John James  Christophe
Benjamin Binns
I was cut down right in the midst  of my sins
For my home is down below,
I'm let out for an hour or   sow
When the cock begins to crow,
Farewell Benjamin Binns.

When I lived on this earth my wife often said- 
If I should die first she'd never get wed;
To night I called on her, through key-holes crept,
It ghoast could shed  tears I'm sure I'd have wept;
A man held  my wife in a tender embrace.
She called him her hubhy, he'd take my place;
To make matters worse, and to crown all my woes.
The fellow wearing my best Sunday cloathes.

Spoken—The gas was full on-she could  not see me, but I
was determined she should hear me  I said---"Hold! mort-
al peace of fiesh." She shrieked and held the mantel-piece.
Then I in sepulchral tones said—
				I'm the Ghost, &c.

I'll  try to forget my fals hearted wife,
And give you a plan of my present life.
I get good engagements, with cash in advance
Attending the Spiritualist's midnight seance.
I rap at the tables and kick up such scenes.
I ring clanging bells and  bang tambourines,
If  Maskeylyne  says  "Ghosts  are hosh," he is wrong,
For if he comes  near me , he'll smell  spirits quite strong.

Printed by W. Shepherd, Overgate, Dundee.The Apparition.
 

AT Mid-night Hours, when Nature seems to nod,         
And Sleep triumphs upon the Works of God,               
Tormented Souls awake, and Spirits fly abroad,          
Appear'd, with smiling Face, a Female's Ghost,
By Falshood to Elisium Shades was tost,           
And thus harangu'd a Monster of a Man,
While Horror shook his Limbs and thro' his Pulses ran,
My Sins forgiven, now Glory swells my Breast,                     
I answer'd for your Bill, and Jesus for the rest.                           
My Joy begins, and your eternal Wo,                                     
for I'm absolv'd above, as you below,
Where Truth and Justice reign; without a Flaw,                 
No Falshood there, nor sneaking Tricks of Law,                     
In Doomsday's Books your Name hath got a Mark,'             
And every Angel was a Divine Clerk.
Receive this Rope resign'd me from the Tree,                            
And mourn and melt when you remember me.

Edinburgh, Printed by James Ross:A   STRANGE   and   WONDERFUL   ACCOUNT   of   an

INHUMAN MURDER

Committed in the Canongate  of EDINBURGH,   on MONDAY,   March   15th,  by

JAMES    SCOOGY

On   the PERSON  of

COMMON    SENSE.

ALL civilized Sates, all Modes of Religion, in every Age, have pro-
nounced deliberate Murder as the most atrocious Crime human Na-
ture is capable of; a Crime of more general Importance than any other ;
therefore claiming a peculiar Vengeance.    In this detestable Light, the
Fact hereafter related must appear.

In Crimes of this Nature, Circumstances carry great Weight ; on which
Evidence alone, JAMES SCOOGY, the Perpetrator this dark Deed,
might jnstly be declared Guilty, as an established hatred to the Deceased
has appeared in all his Actions: However, the Fact is rendered incontest-
able, by the following extraordinary and supernatural Revelation.

Passing thro' the Canongate on Friday Night, betwixt the Hours of
Twelve and One, I was accosted near the Entrance to the Theatre by a
Female Figure, whom I endeavoured to avoid, supposing her to be one
of the Priestesses of Venus looking out for Proselytes ; but upon a near
Approach, by the Assisstance of the Moon, and an unusual Tremor that
came upon me, I perceived the Object to be no other than what in vulgar
Phrase is stiled a Ghost. I was struck at so new and unexpected a Sight
with Fear and Awe; I started and would have retired, but was prevent-
ed, and at the same Time, was addressed by the Shade, as follows:

" Mortal, fear not, thou art free from Danger; I am the Spirit of Com-
mon Sense come to sollicit your laterposition for Revenge upon the Assassin,
who last Night most cruelly put an End to my corporeal Existence."

Having summoned Resolucion to enquire the Particulars and promise my
Assistance, the unhappy Lady proceeded in the following Manner :

" Know, Mortal, that JAMES SCOOGY, to whom I owe my Death,
some Years ago sollicited Favours from me, which he could never ob-
tain, tho' he has always boasted of my kind Influence, in Common with
that of other Females, whom he never knew, or but very slightly. Hav-
ing always shunned, and frequently exposed him, he conceived an
irreconcilable Hatred to me, as is plainly manisested by all his Actions. I
have had many narrow Escapes from his Rage, and have been often greiv-
ously wounded by him ; at length the fatal Hour arrived, when I was
to become the Monster's Prey. Last Night, as I was returning from a
Visit, paid to my younger Sister Prudence, just at this Place my mortal
Foe rushed out upon me, dragged me forcibly into an Area, which I
perceived to be that of the Theatre; and here called out upon one of
his Vassals, who sometimes appears in the Shape of a Dragon, to open
his Castle Gate, and assist him to force me in. Vain were my Cries and
Supplications; they could not touch his murdrrous Heart; he meditated
not only my Destruction, but also the most excruciating Tortures. For
this Purpose he loaded me with Tragedy Chains, and mounting me upon
one of Bays's Horses, worse to me than the Brazen Bull of Phalaris,
ordered me to ride for his Amusement. After this he undertook to Pan-
tomiue in the Character of a Monkey, and obliged me to personate a Clown,
then viewing me with malicious Joy, Wretch, says he, I know you have
a natural Affection for Theatres, therefore have chose one for the Place
of your Death ; one, from whence, to the utmost of my Power, I have
banished you.-----Think on my Darling Or-------n of China;   think of
the Co----s ; think of Harlequin Restored ; all sacrificed to your Malice:
But my Revenge is come ; thou shalt die : But I will first convince thee
that should I condescend to grace the Stage,, a thousand G-----cks must
be immediately eclipsed. Here he spouted various Passages, till the Tor-
ture grew almost beyond bearing. I implored some Pity in the Name of
Common Honesty, Common Humanity, Who are they, replied he ? I never
had any Acquaintance with either of them. How long he might have
continued my Torture I know not, had not his faithful Dragon warned
him of an approaching Dun. This hurried on my Fate; he snatched up a
Harlequin Sword and instantly dispatched me; observing that he hoped
by my Death to reduce public Criticism to the Standard of his Opinion:
But the Caitiff here is disappointed ; for I this night appeared to my elder
Sister, Judgment, who has promised to have a sharp and severe Eye upon
whatever this Enemy to our Family may produce, not withstanding that
pert and peremptory Dame, Fashion should chance for a short Time to be
of his Side."

Here, the Cock crowing, the Shade vanished and left me, wrapped
in Wonder and what I had seen and heard ! A Mode of discovery as extra-
ordinary as the Crime revealed, which according to promise, I thus Pro-
mulge, and hope the Assassin, as he is well known, may be speedily brought
to the Bar of Justice.                                                       HUMANUS.