The Slippy Stane

NANCY  WHISKY.      THE NAMELESS LASSIE.
THE SCOTCH BRIGADE   SOMEWHERE THE SUN Is SHINING

The Slippy Stane.

Wade canny through this weary  world,
An'  pick your  steps  wi'   care ;
Never wi' your neebours quarrel,
But aye dae what is fair.
Folks fa' an' never rise again,
Wha never fell  before,         
For there's aye a muckle slippy stane
At ilka body's door.

Gin your neebour chance to slip,
Ye mauny  pass him by,
But len' a han', help him up,
Dinna lat him lie
The case may sometimes be your ain,
Tho' ye hae walth in stone 
For there's aye a muckle slippy stane
At ilka body's door.



There's slippy stanes where'er ye gang,
At palace, cot, or ha',
An' ye maun watch an' no' gang wrang,
Or ower them ye may fa'.
For emperors and kings hae fa'en,
An'  nobles mony a score;
 For there's aye a muckle slippy stane
At  ilke body's door.

The Scotch Brigade.

On the banks of the Clyde stood a lad and his lassie,
The lad's name was Geordie, the lassie's was Jean.
She flung her arms around him, and cried do not leave me,
For Geordie as going to fight for his Queen.
She gave him a lock of her bright golden, tresses,
She kiss'-d him, and prese'd him once more to her heart,
Till his eyes spoke of the love which his lips could not utter,
But the last words are spoken, they kiss, and, they part.

CHORUS—

Over the burning plains of Egypt,
Under the scorching sun,
He thought of the stories he'd have to tell
His love when the fight, was done.
He treasured with care  that dear lock of hair,
For his own darling Jeannie he prayed;
But his prayer was in vain, for she'll ne'er see again
Her lad in the Scotch Brigade.

Tho' an ocean divided the lad from his lassie,
Tho' Geordie was forced far away o'er the foam,
His roof was the sky, and his bed was the desert,
But his heart with his Jeannie was always at home.
The morning that, dawned on the day of battle,
Found, Geordie enacting a true hero's part,
Till an enemy's bullet brought with it its 'billet,
And buried that dear lock of hair in his heart.

On the banks of the Clyde dwells a heart broken mother,
For the sake of the laddie who died far away.
But Jeannie is with her to comfort and shield her,
Together they weep and together they pray,
But the glory of England to her brought no comfort,
They told her of how the great victory was won,
And Jeannie her daughter will be while she lives,
For glory to her meant the loss of her son.

Somewhere the Sun is Shining.

Somewhere in the world the moon  is shining,
Shining on the fields and golden hills;
Somewhere near the shadows slowly falling,
Creeping o'er the silent vales and rills.
Oftimes I find my heart is longing
Just to press her dear sweet lips to mine—
Caress her with burning love and kisses;
Yet I wonder will there come a time.

                 

                 REFRAIN-



Somewhere the sun is shining,
Somewhere a little rain ;
Somewhere a heart is pining
For love, but all in vain.
Somewhere a soul is drifting
Further and further apart;
Somewhere my love lies dreaming.
Somewhere a broken heart.

If in years to come she should recall me,
Would she love me and still hold me dear?
Would she then forget  those cruel words spoken
When my jealous rage caused her to fear?
Oftimes I think she knows I'm longing,
Knows that she could ease my  aching heart,
Would she say, "Forgive me, oh, my darling;
Do not grieve, for we shall never part."
REFRAIN-

Nancy Whisky.

This very old song can only be had in the
Poet's Box, price One Penny.
Air—It's very Strange.

This seven long years  I've been a weaver,
Until my wages they were pulled down,
And, to buy myself a new suit of clothes,
I  took my way up to Dublin town.
As I was walking up Dublin city,
Nancy Whisky I chanced to smell,
I thought it proper to call in and see her—
For seven years I had loved her well.

As I walked in unto the parlour,
And asked pardon for making free—
Your pardon's granted, kind sir, she answered,
You're welcome to me sweet Jack M'Gee.
I sat down all by the table,
And valued each other there for a while;
The more I tasted the more I loved her,
Till Nancy's charms they did me beguile.

 'T'was very early in the morning,
Finding myself in a strange bed,
I went to rise, but I was not able,
For Nancy's charms they held down my head.
I called the landlady to the parlour,
And asked her what was to pay—
Thirty shillings, it is the reckoning,
So pay me quickly and go away.

It's I pulled out a purse with money,
And to her the reckoning I did pay down;
I paid to her her thirty shillings,
And all that remained was a bare half crown.
As I was walking up Dublin city,
Nancy's sister I chanced to spy;
And with 'her I spent two and twopence,
And all that remained was the crooked boy.

As I stepped in unto the parlour,
I left that surplus all with the rest;
Here's a health to all clever fellows,
And to the fair one I love best.
I'll go  home, and I'll join my weaving,
And I'll throw my shuttle another while;
And if I live to another season,
Nancy's charms won't me beguile.

The Nameless Lassie.

There's  nane may ever guess guess or trow my bonnie lassie'name,
 There's name may ken the humble cot my lassie ca's her hame,
Yet though my lassie's nameless, an' her kin o' low degree,
Her heart is warm, her thoughts are pure, an' O, she's dear
to me.



She's gentle as she's  bonnie, an' she's, modest  as she's fair;
Her virtues, like her beauties a' , are varied; as they're rare—
While she is light and merry as the lammie on the lea,
For happiness an' innocence thegither aye maun be.

When she unveils her blooming face, the flowers may cease 
to blaw.

An' when she ope's her hinnied lips, the air it trembles a';
But when wi ithers sorrow touched the tear stands in, her e'e,
Oh, that's the gem in beauty's crown the priceless pearl to me.
Within my soul her form's enshrined, her heart is a' my ain,
An' richer prize, or purer bliss, nae mortal e'er can gain—
The darkest paths o' life I tread wi' steps o' bounding glee,
Cheer'd onward by the love that  lights my nameless lassie's

Copies can always be' had at, the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.

RISE UP                 

Noble Britons, Bundle an' go.

Curse on this Indian war that ere it began
And wae to the savages that formed the plan ;
But Britons are heroes we'll soon let them know,
That we'll seon be revenged so let's bundle and go.

Sae blaw on the bagpipe and beat on the drum,
Invite a' the lads that hae heart for to come;
That are young, stout, and able to face the black foe,
To protect our British subjects let us bundle and go.

Ye heroes of Britain that on listing are bent,
Gae join with the gallant and brave old tenth ;
For 800 savages they quickly laid low,
To be quick now to join them an' bundle an' go.

Ye heroes of Scotland that are able and free,
Gae join with the gallant and brave ninety three :
For they have gone to the Indies Sir Colin for to join,
And they will add another laurel to their Balaklava fame.

Ye lads of Banffshire and likewise Aberdeen,
Gae list wi' the lads wear the facings o' green ;
Seventy-ninth, seventy eighth and the brave old forty-twa,
For they always are ready to bundle an' go.

Let the bagpipes resound amang the hills o' the north,
Through Cromarty and Caithness to the lands o' Seaforth,
Tell M'Kenzie and Sutherland, M'Kay an' Munro,          
That our women have been insulted, and they'll bundle an go

Ye heroes of Ireland, gae list heart and hand,
In the bold Connaught Rangers the pride of your land ;
Or the brave Faugh-a-Balloch, a regiment we know,
That will spend their herrts blood when they bundle and go

Let the harp of Old Ireland sound clear through the air,
From the County of Down to the Curragh of Kildare;
And through the mountains of Kerry to the county of Mayo
Just play Patrick's day and they'll bundle anl go.

In Lanarkshire and Stirlingshire there's plenty brave men,
Renfrew and Argyle there's a number that I ken;
And in through Glengary, Glenlyon and Glencoe,
Play the Campbells are coming, they'll bundle an' go.

Come west by Loch Carron and in by Kintail,
And down through Lochaber to the side o' Locheal;
And cogdah na sith tell the pipers to blow,
And ye'll soon raise the clansmen to bundle an' go.

Raise the standard of Scotland on the banks o' the Tweed,
On the banks of Galean and also the Jed;
The Armstrongs and Elliots, and the Douglas also,
Will shoulder their muskets and bundle an' go.

Brave Colin ye ken lads, he cares nae for blacks,
Gie him a wheen Britons to stand at his back;
Like a lion undaunted he'll rush on the foe,
And wi' his Glasgow sword gar them bundle an' go.

We are gentle as lambs but lions at heart,
But when we're insulted can take our ain part;
We're as hardy as oak and as fleet as the roe,
And to be revenged let us bundle an' go.

Heaven bless our Queen all her rights to maintain,
And grant her long life over Britain to reign,
And still may her brave subjects their loyalty show,
To rise up in thousands an' bundle an' go.Battle of Inkermann,

The Battle of Inkermann, fought and conquered by the
Allied Troops—British, French, Sardinians and Turks, on
the 5th November 1854, will ever stand, on the memory of
the present  generation; and on the page of history it will
go to the end of the world, as one of the greatest achieve-
ments  ever accomplished by gun, sword, and cannon. The
difficulties the  Allies had to encounter were great, and only
noble  hearts could accomplish them. Bravery on the Allies
side closed the day's proceedings, while many a. brave hero
lies now on the Crimea, having left heart broken mothers
and widowed wives to lament their loss—but having died
honourably for their country's rights, they look back with
melancholy and delight. Hear what the Poet now says In
his noble piece of Recitation, which the poet has no doubt
Will be recited by every school boy, and on every stage of
the globe till time shall be no more.'   It can only be had in
the Poet's Box, 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Sebastopol lay shrouded in thick November's gloom,
And through the midnight silence the guns  had ceas'd to boom;
The sentinel the outworn in watching for the morn
From Balaklava's heights, beheld the Russian lights
In the close beleagured fortress far a-down ;
And heard the sound of bells coming upwards through the
dells,
And the sound of mingling voices and anthems from the town.
They pray'd the God of Justice to thwart them in their wrong,
They consecrated murder with jubilee and song;
To the slain the joys of heaven, may their sins all be for
given,
When the promises divine had passed along their line,
As they gathered in their m riads ere the dawn;
While their priests in full ac ord chaunted glory to the Lord,
To bless the Russian banner and the sword for battle drawn.
Stealthly and dark lay amid the rain and sleet,
No trumpet's call resounding, drums beat, nor bugles blows
But shadow-like and slow came the legions of the foe,
Moving dimly up the steep where the British camps do sleep,
Lay unconscious of the danger lurking near ;
And the soldier breathing hard on the cold and trodden
sward.
Dreams of victory, wife and children dear.
Hark ! heard you not a rumbling in the misty moving air,
Like the rush of rising tempest when they shake the forest
bare?
The outpost on the hill hears it close and closer still,
Tis the tramp of iron heels, 'tis the crash of cannon wheels.
To arms! to arms ! is the cry, his the Russians on our flank,
Up and arm each British rank, and meet the gallant Guards-
men to conquer or to die!
Then rose the loud alarm with hurricane of sound,
From  short and easy slumber sprung each  hero to the
ground-
Sprung each horseman to his steed, ready saddled for his
need-
Sprung each soldier to his place with a stern determined face,
While the rousing drum and bugle echo far;
And the cruck of rifles wrung and the cannon found a tongue,
And down upon them  bursting came the avalanche of war.
As long as France and England shall combine their warlike
men,
Their deeds shall be remembered should the battle burst
again;
but to action so sublime will inspire each futher mind.
When war's alarms shall cease and the nations live in peace,
Free from tyranny, its murders, and its van ;
Let's  tell with honoured pride, how our soldiers fought and .
died.
And saved a threatened world on the heights of Inkerma nn.

Saturday Morning, August 8,1867.J A M I E

FOYERS

Far distant, far distant, lies  scotia the   brave,
No tombstone  memorial to hallow his grave;
His bones are now scottered on the rude soil  of Spain,
And young Jamie Foyers in battle was slain.

From the Perthshire Militia to serve in the line,
The brave forty-second we sailed to join;
To Wellington's army we did volunteer,
Along with young Foyers, that bold halberdier.

That night when we landed the bugle did sound,
The General gave orders to form on the ground ;
To storm Bruges Castle before the break of day,
And young Jamie Foyers to lead us the way.

But mounting the ladder for scaling the wall,
With a shot from a French gun young Foyers did fall
He leaned his right arm upon his left breast,
And young Jamie Foyers his comrades addressed:

For yon, Robert Perry, that stands on campaign,
If goodness would send to auld Scotland again;
You may tell my old father, if yet his heart warms,
That young Jamie Foyers expired in your arms.

But if a few moments in Campsie I were,
My mother and sisters my sorrows would share;
But alas! my poor mother, long may she mourn,
For her son Jamie Foyers will never return.

But if I had a drink of Baker Brown's well,
My thirst it would quench and my fever quell ;
For life's purple current was ebbing so fast,
That young Jamie Foyers soon breathed his last.

They took for a winding-sheet, his tartan plaid,
And in the cold grave his body was laid;
With a heart full of sorrow they covered his clay,
And muttering—poor Foyers!—marched slowly away.

His father and mother, and sisters do mourn,
For Foyers, the brave hero, will never return ;
His friends and acquaintances lament for the brave,
For now Jamie Foyers is laid in his grave.

The bugle may sound and the war-drum may rattle,                
Nae mair will they rouse  this young hero to battle;
He fell from the ladder like a soldier so brave,
And Foyers, that true hero, is, laid in his grave.SCOTLAND'S STAGNATION!    
Or, Where is all the Money gone ?

The oldest person in the world, on land or on the water,                     
Never saw such times before, since Sampson killed his daughter.
The peoples' doors, I am so sure, are on the hinges creaking ;
All clothes are pop d, all works are stopp'd, and all the Merchants
breaking.

CHORUS.

Tens of thousands out of work, what will the country come to?
I cannot think, says every one, where all the trade is gone to.

I wonder where all the trade is gone, says Jock to Jenny Harding !        
Laddies used to spend half-a-crown, but now can't sport a farthing.
The flesher cannot sell his fat; the miller's bags are dusty;
The baker says his penny rolls are getting stale and musty.
				Tens of thousands, &c.

The chimney-sweeps are all discharged; the barbers & the tailors;
Twelve thousand snobs are out of work, and a million of navigators.
The Merchants all,-----------, will have to be coal-heavers ;
They have discharged and sent at large 10,000 Paisley weavers.
				Tens of thousands, &c.

The thieves say the times are very hard—if pouches they try twenty,
Nineteen out of them are to let—they are completely empty.
the doctors' say they've nothing to do, the lawyers they are crying ;
The coffin-makers ate fully employed, 'cause poor folk all are dying.
				Tens of thousands, &c.

The pretty lasses that walk the streets in sorrow tales are grieving;
They say at night they cannot get themselves an honest living.
If one meets a swell, how sad to tell, be nicely does trepan her,
Where they used to get half-a-crown, they scarce can get a tanner.
				Tens of thousands, &c,

If times don't alter very soon, we soon shall die in grief, sirs,
And have to sew up all our mouths, and pull out all our teeth, sirs.
Old Aberdeen, in the House of Lords, knock'd down. Lord Stanley
right slap,
Crying, where is all the siller gone, and then he eat Ms night-cap.
				Tens of thousands, &c.

I wonder where all the money is gone, there is such a fuss about it,
Money is a glorious thing, we cannot do without it.
They have raked it up, and seat it off, to you, I do deelare,
Some says its off to Sebastopol to fight the Russian Bear.
				Tens of thousands, &c.

The provisions now, are very dear, poor folks can scarcely fend,
And if Sebastopol was taken, then perhaps the times would mend.
If they don't make some alteration soon, the folk will play some
capers,
Either out of iron, brass, or steel, dried cabbage leaves, or papers.
				Tens of thousands, &c.         

No matter what it is, as long as times are very funny.
If it is as good, and made of wood, some call it money.
For money is scarce, and trade is bad, to yon ! do declare,                
So now my lads yon all can list, to go and fight the Russian Bear.
				Tens of thousands, &c.BATTLE  OF ALMA.

You loyal Britons play draw near,
Unto the news I've brought you here,
With joy each British heart does cheer
	For the victory gained at Alma.
It was an September, the 18th day,
In spite of the salt sea's dashing spray,
We landed safe in the Crimes,
	Upon our route for Alma.

CHORUS.

Briton's sons may long remember,
The glorious 20th of Soptember
We made the Ru sian Bears surrender,
Upon the heights of Alma.

That night we lay on the cold ground,
No tents nor shelter could be found ;
Wi h rain we all were nearly drowned.
	To cheer our hearts for Alma..
Next morn a burning sun did rise.
Beneath the eastern cloudless skies,
Our gallant chief, Lord Raglan, cries,
	Prepare to march for Alma!

And when the Alma eame in view,
The stoutest heart it would subdue,
To see the Russians motley crew,
	Upon the heights of Alma
They were so strongly fortified
With batteries on the mountain side,
Our Generals viewed their force and cried,
	We'll get hot -work at Alma !

Lord Reglan and Marshall St Arnaud,
Our galiant men to victory led,
And ,with the Frenchmen by our side,
	We gained the heights of Alma
The balls did fall a's thick as rain,
When we the batteries strove to gain,
And many a hero  there was slain,
	Upon the heights of Alma,

The 33rd the 7th, and Fusileers,
They climbed the hill and gave three cheer,
When faugh -a- ballagh  did rend  our ears,
	From Hlbernia's sons at Alma..
Our Highland lads, in kilt and hose,  •
They were not last, you may suppose,
But boldly freed the Russian foes,
	And geined  the heights of  Alma.

As soon as the heights we did command,
We fought the Russians hand to hand,
But the Russian Bears could not withstand
	Our British charge at Alma.
Their guns and knapsacks they tbrew down,
And ran like hares before the bouuds;
Then ''Vive le Empereur" did resound,
	From the sons of France at Alma.

To Sebastopol the Russians fled,
And left their wounded and their dead;
The river, that day, I am sure ran red
	With the blood that was spilt as Alma,
And though the battle we have got.
And gellantly our heroes fonght,
Yet dearly was that vietory bought,
	For thousands fell at Alma.

Between the wounded and the slain,
The Russians lost 8,000 men,
And had 3,000 prisoners ta'en,
	Upon the heights of Alma.
Two thousand British, I've heard say,
Did fall upon that fatal day;
And fourteen hundred Frenchman lay
	In their bloody gore at Alma.

From orphans' eyes the tears doth roll,
And none the widows can console;  
While parents mourn beyond control,
	For the  sons  the lost at  Alma,
And many a pretty maid doon mourn
Her lover who will ne'er return;
By cruel wars he's from her torn,
	His body lies at Alma.

To Sebastopol  our troops are gone,
And  new you'll  hear before   it's long;
Its forts must fall, though twiee as strong—
	We'll be revenged for Alma.
With Franee and Britain  hand in hand.
What foe  on carth could them withstand'
Then sound the news throughout the land
	We victory gained, at Alma.TRAGEDY OF SIR JAMES THE ROSE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.                                                            

Copies can always be had in the POET'S BOX,  8O  London Street, Glasgow.                       



Of all the Scottish northern chiefs,
Of high and mighty name,
The bravest was Sir James the Rose,
A knight of meikle fame.

His growth was like a youthful oak
That crowns the mountain's brow ;
And waving o'er his shoulders broad,
His locks of  yellow flew.

Wide were his fields, his herds were large,
And large his flocks of sheep ;
And numerous were his goats and deer
Upon the mountain steep.

The chieftain of the good clan Rose,
A firm and warlike band,
Five hundred warriors drew the sword
Beneath his high command.

In bloody fight thrice had he stood
Against the English keen,
Ere two-and-twenty op'ning springs
The blooming youth had seen.


The fair Matilda dear he loved,
A maid of beauty rare ;
E'en Margaret on the Scottish throne
Was never half so fair.


Long had he woo'd, long she refus'd,
With seeming scorn and pride,
Yet oft her eyes confessed the love
Her fearful words denied.



At length she blessed his well-tried love,
Allowed his tender claim ;
She vowed to him her virgin heart,
And owned an equal flame.   

Her father, Buchan's cruel lord,
Their passion disapproved;
He bade her wed Sir John the Graham,
And leave the youth she loved.

One night they  met, as they were wont,
Deep in a shady  wood,
Where on the bank, beside the burn,
A blooming saugh-tree stood.

Concealed among the underwood,
The crafty Donald lay ;
The brother of Sir John the Graham,
To hear what they might say.

When thus the maid began: my sire,
Your passion disapproves—
He bids me wed Sir John the Graham,
So here must end our loves.

My father's will must be obey'd,
Naught boots me to withstand ;
Some fairer maid in beauty's bloom  
Must bless thee with her hand.

Soon will Matilda be forgot,                 
And from thy mind effaced,               
But may that happiness be thine
Which I can never taste.

What do I hear ? is this the vow ?
Sir James the Rose replied;
And will Matilda wed the Graham,
Though sworn to be my bride ?

His sword  will sooner pierce my heart
Than reave me of thy charms ,
And clasped her to his throbbing breast,
Fast locked within his arms.

I spoke to try thy love, she said,
I 'll ne'er wed man but thee ;
My grave shall be my bridal bed
Ere Graham my husband be.

Take then, dear youth, this faithful kiss,
In witness of my troth,
And every plague become my lot
That day I break my oath !

They parted thus—the sun was set,
Up hasty Donald flies,
And turn thee ! turn thee ! beardless youth
He loud insulting cries.

Soon turned about the fearless chief,
And soon his sword he drew,
For Donald's blade before his breast
Had pierced his tartan through.

This for my brother's slighted love,
His wrongs sit on my arm ;
Three paces back the youth retired,
And saved himself from harm.

Returning swift, his sword he reared
Fierce Donald's head above,
And thro' the brain and crashing bones
The sharp-edged weapon drove.

He staggering reeled, then tumbled down
A lump of lifeless clay;
So fall my foes ! quoth valiant Rose,
And stately strode away.

Thro' the green wood in haste he passed
Unto Lord Buchan's hall ;
Beneath Matilda's window stood,
And thus on her did call.

Art thou asleep, Matilda, dear,
Awake, my love, awake !
Behold thy lover waits without,
A long farewell to take.

For I have slain fierce Donald Graham,
His blood is on my sword,
And distant are my faithful men,
Nor can defend their lord.

To Skye I will direct my flight,
Where my brave brothers bide,
And raise the mighty of  the Isles
To combat on my side.

Oh, do not so, the maid replied,
With me till morning stay,
For dark and dreary is the night,
And dangerous the way.

All night I'll watch thee in the park,
My faithful page I'll send
In haste to raise the brave clan Rose,
Their master to defend.

He laid him down beneath a bush,
And wrapped him in his plaid : 
While, trembling for her lover's fate,
At a distance stood the maid.

Swift ran the page o'er hill and dale,
Till, in a lonely glen,
He met the furious Sir John Graham,
With twenty of his men.

Where go'st thou, little page, he said,
So late—who did thee send ?
I go to raise the brave clan Rose,
Their master to defend;

For he has slain Sir Donald Graham,
His blood is on his sword,
And far, far distant are his men,
That should assist their lord.

And has he slain my brother dear,
The furious chief replies;
Dishonour blast my name, but he
By me ere morning dies.

Say, page, where is Sir James the Rose ?
I will thee well reward;
He sleeps into Lord Buchan's park,
Matilda is his guard.

They spurr'd their steeds and furious flew
Like lightning o'er the lea;
They reach'd Lord Buchan's lofty tow'rs
By dawning of the day.

Matilda stood without the gate,
To whom the Graham did say-
Saw ye Sir James the Rose last night,
Or did he pass this way ?

Last day at noon, Matilda said,
Sir James the Rose passed by ;
He furious pricked his sweaty steed,
And onward fast did hie.

By this he is at Edinburgh,
If horse and man hold good ;
Your page then lied, who said he was
Now sleeping in the wood.

She wrung her hands and tore her hair,
Brave Rose, thou are betrayed,
And ruined by those means, she cried,
From whence I hoped thine aid.

And now the valiant knight awoke,
The virgin's shrieks he heard ;
Straight up he rose and drew his sword
When the fierce band appeared.

Your sword last night my brother slew,
His blood yet dims its shine,
But ere the setting of the sun 
Your blood shall reek on mine.

You word it well, the chief replied,
But deeds approve the man ;
Set by your men, and, hand to hand,
We'll try what valour can.

Oft boasting hides a coward's heart,
My weighty sword you fear,
Which shone in front of Flodden Field
When you kept in the rear.

With dauntless step he forward strode,
And dared him to the fight,
But Graham gave back and feared his
For well he knew its might.      [arm,

Four of his men, the bravest four,
Sunk down beneath his sword ,
Bui still he scorned the poor revenge,
And sought their haughty lord.

Behind him basely came the Graham,
And pierced him in the side;
Out spouting came the purple stream,
And all his tartans dyed.

But yet his hand dropped not  the sword ,
Nor sunk he to the ground,
Till through his enemy's heart his steel,
Had forced a mortal wound.

Graham, like a tree by wind  o'erthrown,
Fell breathless on the clay,
And down beside him sunk the Rose,
And faint and dying lay.

Matilda saw, and fast she ran,
Oh, spare his life, she cried:
Lord Buchan's daughter begs his life,
Let her not be denied.

Her well-known voice the hero heard,
He raised his death-closed eyes,          
And fixed them on the weeping maid,   
And, weakly, thus replied :                

In vain Matilda begs the life                
By Death's arrest denied;                 
My race is run—adieu ! my love,         
Then closed his eyes and died.          

The sword, yet warm, from his left side,
With frantic hand she drew ;            
come, Sir James the Rose, she cried, 
I come to follow you.                       

The hilt she leaned against the ground
And bared her snowy breast,            
Then fell upon her lover's face,
And sunk to endless rest.

Saturday morning, January 23, 1869.DEATH  OF

A b e r c r o m b i e.

J. Sharp, Printer, No. 30,   Kent  Street,
Borough.

                             RECITATIVE.

Twas on the spot, in ancient lore oft nam'd,
Where Isis and Osiris once held sway
O'er kings who sleep in pyramidic pride
But now for British valour far more sam'd,
Since Nelson's band archiev'd a glorious day ;
And crown'd with laural Abersrombie died !

AlR.

Her roseate colors the dawn had not shed,
O'er the field which Stern slaughter had tinted to red,
Twas dark-save each flash at the cannon's hoarse sound
When the brave Abercrombie receiv'd his death wound
His comrades. wise grief unaffected, deplore,
Though to Britain's renown he gave one laurel more,

With a mind unsubdued, still the soe he defied.
Oh the steed which the hero of Acre supplied ;
Till, feeling he soon to fate's summons must yield,
He gave Sydney the sword he no longer could wield,
His comrades,&c

The standard of Alb on, with victory crown'd;
'Waved o'er his head as he sank on the ground,
'Take me hence, my brave comrades, the hero did cry,
'My duty's complete,   and contented I die,

His comrades, &c

Workhouse Boy.

The cloth vos laid in the Vorkhouse hall,
The great coats hung 'gainst the white washed wall,
The paupers all were  blithe and gay,
Keeping their Christmas holiday,
When the master he cried with a roguish leer,
Yo'll all get fat on your Christmas cheer,
When one by his looks he seem'd to say,
I'll have some more soup on this Christmas day.
Oh the poor Vorkhouse Boy,&c.

At length all on us to bed vos sent,
The boy vos missing;--in search ve vent,
Ve sought him above, ve sought him below,
Ve sought him vith faces of grief and woe,
Ve sought him that hour. ve sought him that night,
Ve sought him in fear, and ve sought him in fright,
Vhen a young pauper cried, I knows ve shall,
Get jolly vell vopt for loosing our pal:
Oh ! the poor Vorkhouse Boy.

Ve sought in each corner each crevice ve knew,
Ve sought down   the yard, and ve sought up the flue!
Ve sought in each saucepan,each kettle each pot,
In the v/ill/ ter bult look'd, but found him not ;
And vecks roll'd on,ve vere all on us told,
That somebody said he'd been burk'd and sold ;
Vhen our master goes out the Parishioners vild,
Cries, 'There goes the cove that burk'd the poor child.
Oh, the poor Vorkhouse boy, &c.

At length the soup-coppers repairs did need,
The coppersmith come, and there he seed,
A doliop of bones lay grizzling there,
In the leg of the breeche. the boy old wear,
To gain his fill the boy did stoap,
And dreadful to tell he was boil'd in the soup,
And ve all of us say, and say with a sneer,
That he vos push'd in by an Overseer,
Oh, the poor Vorkhouse boy,&c.Susan's Adventures.  Napoleon's Farewell to Paris.

Young Susan was a blooming maid.
So valliant stout and bold,
And when her sailor went on board, 
Young Susan we are told, 
Put on a jolly sailor's dress,
And daubed her hands with tar,
To cross the raging seas for love,
On board of a man-of-war.

It was in  Portsmouth barbout,
This gallant ship was moored.
And when young Susan shipped,
There was nine hundred men on board,
It was then she was contented,
All bedaubed with pitch and tar.
To be with her sweet William.
On board of a man-of-war,

She washed the decks both fore and aft,
In winds and tempest cold
With her hands so soft she went alost,
Like a jolly sailor bold,
She kept her place, with her pretty face,
Bedaubed with pitch and tar
And no one Susan did suspect,
On board of a man-of-war.'

When in the Bay of Biscay,
She aloft like lightning  flew,
Respected by the officers,
And all the jovial crew,
In battle she would boldly run,
Fearing neither wound nor scar,
And do her duty by the gun.
On board of a man-of-war.

She faced the walls of China,
Where her life was not insured, 
And little did young William think,
His Susan, was on board,
By a cannon ball from the batteries,
She did receive a scar,
And she got slightly wounded,
On board of a man-of-war.

When on the deck young Susan fell,
Of all the whole ships crew,     
Her William was the very first,
To her assistance flew,
She said my jolly sailor,
I've for you received a scar
Behold your faith full Susan bold,
On board of a man-of-war.

Then William on his Susan gazed,
With wonder and surprise.
He stood some moments  motionless,
While tears rolled from his eyes,
He cried I wish Instead of you
I had received that scar,     
Oh, love why did you venture,
On board of a man-of-war.

At length to England they returned,
And quickly married were,
The bells  did ring and they'did sing,
And banish every care. 
They often think upon that day,
When she received a scar,
And Susan followed her true love,
On board of a man-of-war.

FAREWELL ye splendid citadels, that metropolis call'd Paris,
Where Phoebes every morning shoots forth her revolving beams;
Where Flora's bright Aurora advancing from the orient.
With radient light adorning the pure shining streams.
At eve when Nectar retires, and the ocean glides like fire
And the universe admire her merchandise in store,
Commanding Flora's fragrance, the fertile fields to decorate,
To illuminate that royal Corsican again on the French shore.

My name is Napoleon Buonaparte, I'm conqueror of nations,
I've banished German legions, and drove kings from their throne
I've conquer'd dukes and earls, in splendid congregations,
Tho' they have transported me to St. Helena shore.
Like Hannibal, I've cross'd the Alps, burning sands, and rocky
cliffs,
O'er Russian bills, through frost and snow, I still the laural wore
I'm in a desert island where the rats —the d------l would affright
Yet I hope to shine in armour bright, through europe once more.

Some say the first of my downfall was parting from my consort
To wed the German's daughter, which grieved me full sore,
But the female train I ne'er will blame, for she ne'er did me despair
She saw my sword in battle flame, and did me adore,
And I severely felt the rod, for meddling with the house of God  
Coins and golden images, by thousands away I tore,
I stole Malta's golden gates, I did works of God disgrace,
But if he gives me time and place, back to him I will restore.

My golden eagles were pull'd down by Wellington's allied army,
My troops all disordered. I could no longer stand the field
I, alas, was sold that afternoon, all on the 18th of June,
My reinforcement prov'd traitorous ; which caused me to yield,
I'm it allied yoke, with fire and sword I made them smoke,
I've conquer'd Dutch and Danes, and surprised the grand Signor,
I've defeated Austrians and Russians, Portuguese and Prussians
Like Joshua, Alexander, or Casar of yore.

Now to the south of Africa and the Atlantic ocean.
To view the mild emotion and the flowing of the tide,
Banished from that royal crown of imperial promotion,
From the French throne of glory, to see those billows glide,
Three days I've stood the plain, liberty's cause to maintain,
Thousand. I've left slain end bleeding in their gore ;
I ne'er fled without revenge, nor co the allied army cringe,
But now my sword is sheathed and Paris is no more,

British Man-of-War.

It was in yon meadows I carelessly did stray. 
And I beheld a lady fair with some young sailor gay;
He said, my lovely Susan, I soon must leave thee here,
And to cross the briny ocean in a British Man-of-War.

Pretty Susan fell a weeping, oh you ng; sailor, she did say,
How can you be so venturesome to throw yourself away
It's when that I am 21,I shall receive my store,
Jolly sailor do not venture in a British Man-of-War

Susan lovely Susan, the truth to you I will tell,
The British flag's insulted, old England knows it wed,
may be crowned with laurels, so like a jolly tar,
I will face the walls of China, in a British Man-of-War.

O sailor do not venture to face the prend Chinese,
For they will prove as treacherous as any Portugese,
And by some deadly dagger you may receive a scare,
So it's turn your inclination from a British Man-of-War.

Susan, lovely Susan, the time will quickly pass.
So come down to the Ferry-house, and take a parting glass,
My ship-mates  they are waiting to row me from the shore,
And it's for'old  England's glory in a British Man-of-War.

Then the sailor took his handkerchief and cut it fair in two
O Susan. keep one hull for me, and I'll do the same for you,
The bullets may surround me and cannos loudly roar,
I'll fight for lame and Susan in a British Man-of-War.'

Then a few more words together when her love let go her
hand,
The jovial crew they launched the boat right merrily from
the land;
The sailor waved his handkerchief when far away from
shore,
Pretty Susan blest her sailor in a British Man-of-war.DARK BONNYMUIR.

As evening dashed on the western ocean,
Caledonia stood perched on the waves of the Clyde ;
Her arms wide extended she raised with devotion,
'My poor bleeding   country' she vehemently eried,
Arise up my country and hail reformation ;
Arise and demand now the rights of our nation.
Behold your oppressers shall meet the desolation ;
That marked the brave victims at dark bonnycuir,

On the 5th of April, eighteen  hundred and twenty,
The great Baird&Hardie did march from their hom   ;
To guard their freedom, homes, rights,   peace and plenty,
But tyranny conquered and gave them a tomb.
Like trailors they died on the 8th of September ;
In the cold silent grave they were consigned to slumber,
But heaven will avenge them let tyrants remember;
And raise up new hero's on Dark Bonnymuir,

Though freedom has bled on the field sorely wounded,
Shall liberty perish and die in Its bloom?
Shall tyranny  triumph though freedom has grounded?
The arms of the hero's that lie ill in the tomb,
But freedom shall rise to the greatest prefection,
Avenging her wrongs with hard words of correction ;
When on my country with filial affection,
I sigh for the martyrs of Dark Bonnymuir.

How long shall tyrants usurp over freedom ?
How long shall we groan in their vile servlle
chains ?
Arise up my children & sink them like Sodom.
E'er sad desolation reigns over the plains;
O,muse on the day  when great Wallace was
rearing,                          ( were fearing;
The broad sword of Scotland, when lyrants
At the sound of the trumpet were thousands
appearing,
To die, or to conquer on Dark Bonnymuir.

Those dear sons of freedom prosperity shall
never,                                 ( disown;
Forget Baird and Hardie, who would them
In the breast of the country their memory
shall ever,                              (stone;
Be a monument more lasting than sculptured
Remembrance shall dwell on their tragical
story,
But heaven shall reward them with bright
shining glory,
In regions far distant from Dark Bonnymuir.

But why should I pass that great patriot Wil-
son.
Who died by oppressive and arbitery laws ;
He left his dear Straven, with a band of brave
hero's,
Resolved to have justice, or die for the cause
But alas! he was taken while fate seemed to
waver;
All bloody his head they did cruelly siver.
But the heart of the country shall reverance
for ever;
The fate of great Wilson and  Dark Bonny muir

No longer the enimiss of justice and freedom,
Shall make the sons of Scotia, in poverty to
mourn;
Our noble patriotic Reformers shall make them
O, how shall we make them a grateful return.
Mechanics shall prosper, and commerce shall
flourish,
The horu of plenty our country shall nourish,
When the tyrant and all despots shall perish,
With proseented freedom on Dark Bonnymuir.A WEE DRAPPIE
M A I R.

Copies of this Popular Song can be had the Poet's Box,
182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.

One night as I was dandering alang the South Street,
I gead in tae the twa brewers my whistle for tae weet;
When I lassie that I ne'er saw before drew anower her

chair,
Saying come awa my lad, an' tak' a wee drappie mair.

CHORUS—

Come awa' my lad an' tak' a wee drappie mair,
Come awa' my lad an' tak' a wee drappie mair;
I am shair you nedna spair it, for there's plenty

mair,
So come awa' my lad an' tak' a wee drappie mair.

I drank her health the second time she did the same

to me,

A strapping lookin' hassie she seemed for to be;
She had cheeks like bloomin' roses aye and bonnie cur-
lie hair,
And she aye insisted on me tae tak' a wee drappie mair.

She forced the drink upon me till I saw the house run

round,

And in another twa or three minutes I was ower sleepin'

sound;
But when I awoak and got up and found my purse

gone,
She hooked we my siller, but left I wee drappie mair.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with

an extrea stamp to ensure a free return per post,

Immediate despatch may be relied upon.



BALLYHOOLY

 

Copies can always be had at 192 OVERGATE DUNDEE.

 

There's a dashing sort of boy, who is called his mothes joy,

For his rucetion and elements they charm me;

He takes the chief command in a water-drinking band,

Called the Ballyhooly Blue ribbon Army

The ladies all declare he's the the pride of every fair,

And he bears the the patriotic name of Dooley;

When the temperance brigade do go out upon the parade,

There's not sober man in Ballyhooly.

 

                   CHORUS—

 

Whililoo, hi ho, let us all enlist you know,

For their ructions and their elements they charm me;

We dont care what we ate, if we drink our whisky nate.

In the Ballyhooly Blue Ribbon Army.

 

When we're out upon patrol, and we're under his control,

We take of course, a most extended radous;

Although its very clear we drink only ginger beer.

We fine the drinking rather tadius.

The police one fine day, faith they chanced to come our way

And they said we were behaving most uuruly;

When the sergant he did state that we were walking strait

Faith we stretched him for a corpse in Ballyhooly.

 

Then before the magistrate every one of us did state.

That we had taken nothing that could injure;

And as its very clear we drink ouly ginger beer,

There must have been some stringo in the ginger beer.

Some of us did own we were drinking zoedone,

But the police was behaving most unruly,

It was all of no avail, and within the county jail,

Lies the temperence brigade of Ballyhooly.

 

There's a moral to my song, and it won't detain yez long,

Give up strong drink of every description;

And it's very clear yez may tire of ginger beer,

I'll give yez all a temperence perscription ;

First the sugar yez have got, then water bowling hot,

And the lemon, faith, you'll find I'm speaking truly ;

And the way you'd sprinkele salt, toss a glass or two of

malt,

Fath they called it limonade in Ballyhooly.

 

                  ENCORE VERSES.

 

As you've kindly said encore, faith we'll have a trifle more,

One merning patriotic Captain Dooiey,

Oh ! looking gay and nice, with his night cap full of ice,

Appears upon paraide in Ballyhooly.

Says he, boys do not think my headache's caused thro' drink

And to prove to yez that I am spaking truly,

Just so show I'm not afraid, produce the limonade,

Bgeora, we'll have anothor dose Qf Ballyhooly.DONALD BLUE.

MY  names Donald Blue, you keu me fu' we'll
And if you  be civil I'm a civel chiel,
But if you pu' my board, I'm as rough as the de'il,
If I get a claw at your noddle.

I am kent through the country far and near,
At births and at burials you'll find me there ;
When the body's meet for to ha'd the New Year.
I am the first man in the mornidg

It's true I maun confess, often limes I have been vext,
To see drunken mothers gie the little anes their licks.
When they cry  for a piece, de'il a hit 'ill cross their lips,
For she has been drinking since the morning.

I'1l tell you a trick I played in the south,
A smith had a wife she was troubled wi' a drouth,
She liked me so well, she put so muckle in her mouth,
She was often carried home in the morning.

She'll gang to her bed when her man's coming home,
She'll swear he is drunk though a drap's no in his wame,
But if it was well measured there's a pint in her ain,
For she has been drinking since morning.

The smith he was throng at the shoeing of a horse,
The folk cries smith your wife's at the cross,
He lifted up the hammer and struck wi' sic a fury,
He meast knocked doon the smicdy wi' a fury.

He ran up the street wi' the hammer in his hand,
He saw his wife lying wi' drink could'na gang,
He took her in his arms, and up the street he ran,
And he flung her in the bed in a fury.

He locked the door, took the key in his hand,
He comes down stairs, saying O ! bewitchod man ;
The conduct of a woman I am no fit to stand,
I would list to be a soldier in the morning.

He joined to his work, he was shoeing a horse,
The folk cries smith, your wife's lying at the cross,
Still they kept crying, tak' her iu frae the snow,
Or she will perish in the morning.

The de'ils in the folk what do they mean ava,
If I hae got a drunken wife, I'm no needing twa ;
Still they cried tak' her in frae the snow,
Or else she will perish in the morning.

He ran up the street and he viewed her a' round,
Upon my sooth it is her, how the de'il bas she got roan';
Ance mair agaiu he hoisted her to her room,
Where the ither ane was lying snoring.

Unto his great surprise ho couldan ken' which was his,
Frae the head to the feet they were dressed in one piece ;
They both resembled ither sae muckle in the face,
He coud'na tell which was his Jenny.

De'il care quoth he, we will let them baith lie still,
When they sleep themselves sober,she'll surely ken hereel
From that day to this day she never drumlie gied,
Nor was ever carried hame in the, morning.THE DRUNKARD'S RAGGIT WEAN.

New Songs out  every  week.     Copies  of this Popular  Song  can
always be had at  Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee.

A wee bit raggit laddie gangs wan'ren thro' the street,
Wadin' 'mang the snaw wi' his wee hackit feet,
He's shiv'rin' i' the cauld blast, greetin' wi' the pain ;
Wha's the puir wee callan ? he's a drunkard's raggit wean.
He stan's at ilka door, and he keeks wi' wistfu' e'e,
To see the crood aroun' the fire, a' laughin' loud wi' glee ;
But he daurna venture ben, tho' his heart be e'er sae fain,
For he manna play wi' ither bairns—the drunkard's raggit
wean.

Oh, see the wee bit bairnie, his heart is unco fou,
The sleet is blawin' cauld, an' he's dreepit thro' an' thro' ;
He' s spierin' for his mither, an' he winners whaur she's gane;
But, oh ! his mither she forgets her puir wee raggit wean.
He kens na faither's love, an' he kens nae mither's care,
To soothe his wee bit sorrows, or kame his tauted hair,
To kiss him when he waukens, or smooth his bed at e'en;
An' oh ! he fears his father's face—the drunkard's raggit
wean.

O pity the wee laddie, sae guileless an' sae young,
The oath that lea's the father's lip 'ill settle on his tongue,
An' sinfu' words his mither speaks his infant lips 'ill stain ;
For oh ! there's nane to guide the bairn—the drunkard's
raggit wean.
Then surely we micht try an' turn that sinfu' mithers heart,
An' try to get his faither to act a faither's part;
An' mak' them lea' the drunkard's cup, an' never taste again,
Ah' cherish wi' a parent's care their puir wee raggit wean.

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
That can always  be had at the Poet's Box :—

Father O'Flynn

Off to Philadelphia

He was only a Private Soldier

The Iron Horse

Coal Jock

Sailing, Sailing

Isle of France

The Convict Maid

It was gone

Road to Dundee

She was there

Auld Quarry Knowe
Auld Hoose
Auld Thing ower again
Hatton Woods
Rocks o' Bonnie Gibraltar
Bleacher Lass o' Kelvinhaugh
Braes o' Strathblane
Tinker's Wedding
Feeing Time
Beggar Man
&c., &c.The DRUNKARD'S

RAGGIT  WEAN.

A wee bit raggit laddie gangs wan'rin' through the street.
Wadin through the snaw wi' his wee hackit feet,                         
Shiv'rin' i' the cald blast, greetin' wi' the pain,
Wha's the puir wee callin' ?—he's a drunkard's raggit wean.
He stan's at ilka door, and he keeks wi' wistfu' e'e,
To see the crowd around the fire, a' laughin' loud wi' glee ;
But he daurna venture ben, though his heart be e'er so fain,
For he manna play wi' ither bairns, the drunkard's raggit wean.

Oh see the wee bit bairnie, his heart is unco sou,
The sleet is blawin' cald, and he's dreepit through and through ;
He's speering for his mither, and he wun'ers whaur she's gane,
But oh, his mither she forgets her puir wee raggit wean.
He kens nae faither's luve, and he kens nae mither's care,
To soothe his wee bit sorrows, and kame his tautit hair ;
To kiss him when he waukens, or smooth his bed at e'en,                
An' oh, he fears his fatther's face—the drunkard's raggit wean.

Oh pity the wee bit laddie, sae guileless and sae young,
The oath that lea's his faither's lips 'ill settle on his tongue ;
An' sinfu' words his mither speaks, his infant lips 'ill stain,
For oh, there's nane to guid the bairn, the drunkard's raggit wean.
Then surely we micht try an' turn that sinfu' mither's heart,
And try to get the faither to act a faither's part ;
And mak them lea'e the drunkard's cup, and never taste again,
And cherish wi' a parent's care, the puir we raggit wean.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale Stationer,
&c., 9 King Street, off Trongate, Glasgow. Shops and Hawkers
suplied on Liberal Terms. Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on
hand; also, a great variety of Picture-Books, Song-Books,
Histories, &c.

201THE

NEW YEAR

TUNE—Laird of Cockpen.

CHORUS.  	{  And now we're to enter another New Year,
		{  When little is thought on but whisky and beer;
		{  When father and mither, and a' may get daft,
		{  But naebody gains but the change-keeper craft.

To get drunk at Nairday is counted nae sin,
Although that your neighbours be leading you blin' ,
For wasting of money there's naebody cares;                   
They run and they'll roar like the Russian bears.
			And now we've enter'd, &c.

A drap in the bottle it is their whole care,
And the sending o't roun' through the friends that are there 
And when they get heady, their friends 'comes their foes.
And they show them their love by unmerciful blows.
			And now we have entered, &c.

The cares of the world are forgot for the time,
And they row in the mud like a parcel of swine.
They say its to honour their maker above,
And all this rejoicing, to shew him their love.
			And now we have entered &c.

The drinking of healths, and the hooching and noise,
It cheers up the hearts of young haffling boys ;
A practice that's handed from father to son,
But better for thousands it ne'er had begun.
			And now we have entered, &c.

There's some of the clergy, we have to lament,
From Heaven for Teachers profess to be sent,
Fall short of their mission, although they're the guidges,
And use all their influence on the wrong side,
			And now we have entered &c.

Old Satan rejoices as well as the rest,
For that is the time that his harvest is best.
They'll drink and they'll swear till their money is done,
The laird and the grocer fall short by their fun.
			And now we have entered, &c.

Laymen and clergy must all join in one,
And never let Satan's cup into ther han';
Away with such customs, nor Mind them no more,
And banish, intemperance far from our shore.
			And now we have entered, &c.

114              THE POOR

DRUNKARD'S

CHILD.


In taking of my walks on a cold winter's day,
Thro' the fields and the lanes I wended my way,
Till I arrived at a hovel both rustic and wild,
I heard a voice say, I'm a poor drunkard's child.

In this lonely place I am doomed to die,
There's no one to help me, there's no one comes nigh,
I'm shivering with cold and distracted tho' wild,
Kind heaven look down on a poor drunkard's child.

My clothes are all ragged and tattered and torn,
I'm despised, dejected, forsaken, and forlorn,
The world on me frowns, all seemeth unkind,
No sympathy's shown to the poor drunkard's child.

When I used to attempt with the children to play,
They fied from my presence and shunned my way,
To make me a playmate, alas ! they recoil'd,
And often cried out that's a poor drunkard's child.

My mother did die in a workhouse hard  by,
Left me a poor orphan to weep and to sigh,
Broken-hearted she died, look'd to heaven and smil'd,
Crying Jesus protect thee my poor drunkard's child.

My father he used to spend all our store,
Which caused our misery and made us so poor,
But his glass soon ran out, and God not reconcil'd,
He died frantic and left me a poor drunkard's child.

 O Jesus, my Saviour, unfold thy bless'd arms,
Receive me with love, and endear with thy charms,
Take my soul to bless'd mansions to live in thy smile,
And thy praises I'll sing tho' a poor drunkard's child.

Poor drunkard, I pray thee, strong liquor spurn,
Shun all vicious habits, strive virtue to learn,
Be a husband, a father, both loving and kind,
' I' will be a balm to thy soul and peace to thy mind,

So now to conclude, and finish my song,
I hope what I've penned you'll not think me wrong,
Tho' I am left distress'd I will not turn out wild,
I'll show a good example tho' a poor drunkard's child.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, 9 King Street,
(off Trongate,) Glasgow. Upwards of 5,000 different
kinds always on hand; also, a great variety of
Song-books, Picture-books, &c. Shops and Tra-
vellers supplied.

86PARODY ON THE LAMMY.

O whar hae ye been a' day, creeshie souter Johnnie,
O whar hae ye been a' day, daidling, drucken Johnnie;
"I've been north and I've been south,
Every airt, to tell the truth,
Taking a drap to quench my drouth,
Wi' a neighbour cronie."

And hae ye got it quench'd at last, creeshie souter Johnnie,
And hae ye got it quench'd at last, daidling drucken Johnnie;
Frae morning dawn'd till it was dark,
I've labour'd tightly at the wark,
And yet there's in my throat a spark,
My bonny Annie.

O! look upon your hungry weans, creeshie souter Johnnie,
O! look upon your hungry weans, daidling drucken Johnnie;
See them a' in duddies hingin',
See them a' bare fitted rinnin',
While their shoon ye micht be mennin',
Daidling drucken Johnnie.

O! help me to tak aff my duds, my bonnie lammie,
O! help me to tak aff my duds, my bonnie lammie;
Lay me saftly on the strae,
And keep your wrath till break o' day,
I sair may rue like mony mae,
That e'er ye left your mammie.

BLACK-EYED SUSAN.

All in the Downs the fleet was moor'd,
The streamers waving in the wind,
When black-eyed Susan came on board,
O! where shall I my true love find?
Tell me, ye jovial sailors, tell me true,
If my sweet William sails among your crew?
William, who high upon the yard,
Rock'd with the billows to and fro,
Soon as her well-known voice he heard,
He sigh'd and cast his eyes below;
The cord slides swiftly through his glowing hands,
And quick as lightning on the deck he stands.
So the sweet lark, high poised in air,
Shuts close his pinions to his breast,
If chance his mate's shrill call he hear,
And drops at once into her nest;
The noblest captain in the British fleet,
Might envy William's lips those kisses sweet.

" O Susan, Susan, lovely dear!
My vows shall ever true remain:
Let me kiss off that falling tear,
We only part to meet again:
Change as ye list, ye winds, my heart shall be
The faithful compass that still points to thee.
" Believe not what the landsmen say,
Who tempt with doubts thy constant mind;
They'll tell thee, sailors when away,
In every port a mistress find;
Yes, yes, believe them when they tell thee so,
For thou art present wheresoe'er I go.
" If to far India's coast we sail,
Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright,
Thy breath is Afric's spicy gale,
Thy skin is ivory so white;
Thus every beauteous object that I view,
Wakes in my soul some charm of lovely Sue.

" Though battle calls me from thy arms,
Let not my pretty Susan mourn;
Though cannons roar, yet safe from harms,
William shall to his dear return;
Love turns aside the balls that round me fly,
Lest precious tears should drop from Susan's eye."
The boatswain gave the dreadful word,
The sails their swelling bosoms spread,
No longer must she stay on board;
They kiss'd-she sigh'd-he hung his head;
Her less'ning boat unwilling rows to land,
" Adieu," she cried, and waved her lily hand.A NEW SONG CALLED THE

BRIDGETON TRAGEDY-

Good people all of Glasgow, pray listen unto me,
Whilst I relate this woeful tale and mournful tragedy ;
'Tis of a fair and handsome girl, in Bridgeton she did dwell,
She was her parents sole delight, her comrades loved her well.

In May last as she walking was, one day in Glasgow Green,
Her charms had struck a rich young rake, her like he ne'er had seen,
His blandest smile he quick assumed, then kindly her addressed,
Alas for her, she listened so well, his suit he pressed.

He said he was his uncle's clerk, a merchant in the town,
And that the secret she must keep for fear he'd him disown,
But in a short time he would have some hundreds of his own,
And then he'd wed his lovely Jane and brave his uncle's frown.

Time after time that couple met, he quickly won her heart,
She thought he was all love & truth, so well he played his part,
Her artless nature knew no guile, sorry am I to tell,
He vowed he loved, she trusted him, and thus in trusting fell.

For a long time he soothed her, at length he did not come,
She sought the trysting place in vain, no tidings were from him,
The dreadful truth burst on her mind that she had been beguiled,
And left to face the world's cold sneer with her unborn child.

But one day in the Trongate his well-known form she spied,
Her heart beat quick, she nimbly sped, and soon was at his side;
She gently griped him by the arm, and faintly murmured John,
The cruel wretch he shak'd her off, and bade her to be gone.

He walk'd away, she stood transfix'd, ah, cruel was the shock,
The last fond shade of hope was gone", the poor girl's heart was broke
She staggered home, what ails you Jane, the anxious mother said,
Whilst pale as death, she said I'm faint, I want to go to bed.

To her daughter's room the mother went next morning when
woke.
Poor Jane lay weltering in her gore a blood vessel had broke;
The struggle was too hard to bear, her frame had given way,
That lovely girl, once full of life a bleeding corpse there lay.

In Bridgeton grave yard she now lies free from all grief and   pain
Whilst her seducer walks through life, upon his name scarce astai
For wealth hides vice, and gold can screen the foulness of his sin,
Surely his conscience cannot rest to think what he has done.

Now lassies all, a warning take, by Jean who died so young,
Destruction often lies beneath a fair deceitful tongue,
Poor Jane was full of life and love, and in her youthful bloom,
Till wealth & vice did cross her path which laid her in the tomb. A MUCH ADMIRED SONG CALL'D

CARROLINE   0F EDINBOROUGH TOWN

Come all young men and maidens'rt unto my /ill/,
hs of a lovely female was rearcely in  her prime,
Her cheeks they were I he a roee a Imired all around,
She was call'd young Carroline of Edinborough town

Young Henery as miller a conrting her  h Came.
And her parents came to hear they d id not like the same,
Young Penery being offended he unto her did say,
Arise ray dearest Carroline and with me run away,

 He says my dear well go to london and there get wed with
speed,
And when we are united we'll be happy then inded,
 She being entice'd by Henery she put on her finest gown,
And away went lovely Caroline of Edinborough town,

Over hiis & losty mountains this couple did roam,
In time arive a in London so far from hapyy home,
She says dearest Henery pray on me never frown,
 O you'll break the heart of Caroline of Edinborough town

She had not been in London scarsely half a year,
 When hard-hearted Hencry to her  he prove'd severe,
Says Henery I will go to A ca  your friends did on me frown.
  So beg your way without delay to Enenborough town,

A many a day pass'd away in sorrow & dispair.
 Her cheeks that ONCE was ros-yred g ew like lilies fair,
She cries where is my Henery & oft her tears stream'd did
   Sad was the day I tan away from Edinborough town       

Opress'd with greif without relief this fair maid the did go
luto the wood to eat some fruit that on the bushes grew,
Some straugers they did pitty her & more on her did frown
 Whil others said what made you stray from  Edinboroag town

Beneath a losty spreading oak this girl she set down to cry
Watching of the gallant ships as they were passing by,
Three cries she gave for Henery dear & pluuge'd her body
down,
And a fleating went yonng Caroline of Edinborough town,

A note likewise her bonnet she left upon the ground.
And in the note a lock of hair with words I am nomore,
But in the deep I'm fast asleep wish the fishes wa ching round
Who was once comely Caroline of Edinborough town,

So all you tender parents never try to part true love,
For on some day you plainly see distruction it will prove,
Likewise yonng men & maidens on your lovers never frown
  But think-upon young Caroline of Edinborough town

P Brereton printer 1, Lower Exchange Street DublinNorval

ON THE

Grampian Hills

New Readings and Recitations out Every Week

This Popular Recitation can always be had at the Poet's Box.

My name is Norval.    On the Grampian hills
My father feeds his flocks; a frugal swain;
Whose constant cares were to increase his store,
And keep his only son, myself, at home.
For I have heard of battles, and I long'd
To follow to the field some warlike lord;
And heaven soon granted what my sire denied.
This moon, which rose last night round as my shield,
Had not yet filled her horns, when, by her light,
A band of fierce barbarians from the hills
Rushed like a torrent down upon the vale,
Sweeping our flocks and herds.    The shepherds fled
For safety and for succour.   I alone,
With bended bow, and quiver full of arrows,
Hover'd about the enemy, and mark'd
The road he took ; then hasted to my friends,
Whom, with a troop of fifty chosen men,
I met advancing.    The pursuit I led,
Till we o'ertook the spoil-encumber'd foe.
We fought—and conquer'd.    Ere a sword was drawn
An arrow from my bow had pierced their chief,
Who wore that day the arms which now I wear.
Returning home in triumph, I disdain'd
The shepherd's slothful life; and, having heard
That our good king had summon'd his bold peers
To lead their warriors to the Carron side,
I left my father's house, and took with me
A chosen servant to conduct my steps—
Yon trembling coward, who forsook his master.
Journeying with this intent, I passed these towers;
And, heaven-directed, came this day to do
The happy deed that gilds my humble name.COAL  JOCK.

Copies of this can be had at the Pox Box, Overgat, Dundee.
TUNE—Original.

Whaur the mischief am I noo?

Freens, excuse me, for I'm fu'—

Fairly stappit tae the muzzle—choker block ;

I've been oot, an ' ha'en a drap

Wi' anither carter chap,
An' it's took the upper storey o' Coal Jock.

I've wan'ered aff my road,

I'm maistly like to nod,
I think I'll ha'e a comfortable smoke;

The house is a' gaun roun',

And the gas gangs up an' doon—
There's little navigation in Coal Jock.

Chorus.

I can whistle,  I can sing,

I can dance the Hielan' fling,
I can humph a baeket or a poke ;

I can fist a pint o' yull,

And frae that tae half-a-gill,
And that's aboot the strenth o' Coal Jock.

Oor Meg says,  "Johnny Raw,

Man, yer like I never saw,
Deil a hate ye dae but drink and smoke ;

An' ye wad spen' yer hinmaist groat

In tobacco or a pot—
What better could ye expect frae Coal Jock."

Oor Meg's a decent lass,

Tho' her brither Jock's an ass,
Nae doot her temper sometimes I piovoke:

Tae     come    hame ; oh ;--a wee   the waur ----

In a  moving   mass  o' glaur---   

Often in the case wi' Coal Jock.

Oor Meg's man. Tarn M'Bride,
He's a porter on the Clyde,

He's as sober and as steady as a rock;

Tho' he somethings tak's a dram;

There's some common sense wi' Tam

Because he's better learned than Coal Jock.
Meg's minister—auld Peg-
He tried to draw my leg,

He wanted me up to join his flock:

Says he,"you're very corase;"

Says I, '"'I'm name the worse—
There's nae  gullified hokery-pokery in Coal Jock."

"Oh, John ! oh, John !" said he,

"That's coarse vulgarity,"
Then a nine mile sermon—what a Joke!

"It's. not worth your while

Teaching me tin gentle style —
You'll never mak' a minister ' Coal Jock.

You can sermonize your fill,

Tho' your lectures dae nae ill.
They vanish like a whiff o' 'bacca smoke ;

Education's no for me,

You may blether till ye dee,
But ye'll ne'er mak' a gentleman o' Coal Jock.'



It's a chausom after a',                    

No' .a spunk tae get a draw,
I'm gaun tae be clean  ticket for a smoke ;

Lend me a pin to ripe

The shank o this auld pipe,
'Twill be  a great obligement tae Coal Jock.

Noo. freens,   I  think I'll gang ,

I'm staving rather lang—   _

I see it's getting on the twelve o'clock;

Sae noo"noo maun awa',
I'm  friehted  that  I fa',
The bed' the safest quarter for Coal Jock.MUNGO M'GILL.

Draw near ilka wight, that licens'd to retail
A dribble o' spirits, an' porter, an' ale,        
While I sing o' a carle, a great mense to your trade,
Tho' he forty lang miles frae King Willie was bred.
He keepit nae tavern nor splendid hotel,
Nae floors eoort wi' carpets, nor dandy hung bell;
But a cosie thack house at the fit o' the hill,
An' baith auld an' young liked queer Mungo M'Gill.

His house was weel kenn'd by the sign o' the Chair,
An' index o' meanin', altho' something rare;
For, a birkie ance seated, fan' to his surprise,
That the langer he sat he was sweerer to rise.
There the tailor an' souter took their fittin" drams,
An' the smith, owre a chappin, aft rested his trams,
An' but seldom a lade gaed awa frae the mill,
But the dust was synt down aside Mungo M'Gill.

Auld Mungo was gleesome, auld Mungo wss gash,
Wore a grey worsit wig on his time-polish'd pash,
An' a girdle-braid bonnet fu' bien an' fu' braw,
Wi' a tap like a red double-poppy in blaw;
A waiscoat o' red plush, inclos'd his roun' kyte,
His brown coat wi' ivory buttons shone white;
His knee an' shoe buckles were polish'd wi' skill:
Sae a snod clachan vintner was Mungo M'Gill.

When cronies cam' in for a cog an' a crack,
Wi'joke an' wi'jest Mungo seldom was slack;
He aye countenanc'd coshly ilk sentiment said,
Contradiction he kenn'd was nae help to his trade.
Or, when chance brang a guest in sair laden wi' care,
Auld Mungo could balsam the wound to a hair;
He could quote frae the beuk words o' comfort at will,
For nae priest was mair knacky than Mungo M'Gill.

When sederunts were driegh, Mungo kenn'd when to
please
His patients wi' ham, herrin', speldings, or cheese,
Things nobly adapted to gust a drunk mouth,
An as good afterhend for increasin' a drouth.
When the crack had grown tiresome, and Mungo did
think
It was lang 'tween the roun's that the gill-stoup play'd
clink,
He wad look ben the transe(wishin' nae time to spill,)
" Was't here ye were ca'in'?" quo' Mungo M'Gill.

Auld Nepple, his spouse, was nae waur than himsel'
For watching the motion o' baith stoup an' bell;
And when birkies were bungt, Neps but seldom did fail
To water the stoupie to keep their heads hale.
Or, to please the rough gabs o' the sons o' the mine,
She wad sharpen its taste wi' the spirit-o'-wine:
Syne auld Mungo wad laugh at his wife's paukie skill,
For an inbringing joke liked Mungo M'Gill.

To suit ilka comp'ny he had a rare knack,
Wi' drink to ilk taste, or wi' sang, or wi' crack,
Frae the grave-spoken laird, wi' his dull hingin' brow,
To the eat-witted tailor, wi' drink ravin' fou.
He had liquor as good as e'er gusted a gab,
An' he had it as worthless as e'er fleee'd a fab;
Yet the fient a ane ever disputed his bill,
For their trim was aye watch'd by slee Mungo M'Gill.

The gauger an' he aye squar'd 'counts to a tee,
Tho' fou ilka visit, he toddilt hame free;
This straughtit the beuks an' prevented a' strife,
An' ae permit sairt Mungo the hale o' his life.
But, ilk thing has an end, an' a puddin' has twa,
Auld age warsilt roun', an' took Mungo awa;
An' but few o' his trade e'er his fitstaps will fill,
For a dungeon for craft was auld Mungo M'Gill.

The clachan was left in a pityfu' case,
Tears fill'd ev'ry ee, an' grief lengthen'd ilk face;
But the tailor, an' souter,'an' miller 'boon a',
To hae seen, wad hae melted a whinstanc awa':
An' the smith, at the draigie, sat back in the neuk,
Loudly sabbin his lane, while nae whisky he took ;
An' ilk kimmer sigh'd out that was sib to a gill—
" Sers! we'll ne'er see the like o' auld Mungo M'Gill!"THE SHOWMAN.

What various ways some take indeed,
That they may gain their daily bread ;

Many to gain it, begging goes,
Others with comic puppy shows.

Ye envious Critics, try an' guess my name:
Thousands of times ye' ve seen an' heard the same ;
Millions of times ye've given me offence,
But I must say, it's  for the want of sense.

In this Town I'm not a stranger,
Yet my life is in great danger,
With these wretched black-guard boys,
Where'er I go, who me annoys.

Cannot the Police make them yield ?
'Tis such as me that they should shield ;
I gave them no provocation,
Tho' they give me great vexation.

My bonny bairns, come here an' see
A wondrous sight for a baw-bee :
A sight that will you much surprise,
When you behold it wi' yer eyes.

If you will in't a moment gaze,
An' see the drawings it displays ;
When you the grand sight do behold,
You'll say it's not a lie I've told.

The light and dark shades it bestows,
I'm certain none of ye here knows ;
It's really on a famous plan, 
Done by a very clever man.

There's ancient Kings, Queens, Lords, & Dukes,
Wi' garments fine an' curl'd perukes;
An' folk as gay as Peacocks bold,
A' dress'd in velvet trim'd wi' gold.

There, on the left, behold in state,
In golden urn, a Monarch great;
An' heaps o' ancient coins an' dresses,
Lying in coffins, as in presses.

Now look straight forward an' ye'll see,
Men who should never disagree;
Twa hoary parsons T an' G,
Desputin' about the Apocrapha.

There, also see a Russian Boar,
The like was never seen before;
An' various beasts both wild an' tame,
Many of which I cannot name.

The next scene is a subject rare,
A slaughter-house in Thingmay Square,
There human beings are in flocks,
Destroy'd by cruel bludy knocks.

On the right there is Boby Awl,
Wi' poor Daft Jamie an' Wag Fall;
Wag gave to Boby a sheep-head,
Savin' that wad mak' a fine feed.

That sheep-head ?  Yes, the very same,
Poor Jamie got it to tak' hame,
But he had not gone far away,
Till Wag to Boby Awl did say-

Daft Jamie has stol'n yer sheep-head,
Run after him or ye'll ne'er see'd;
He's running fast up Craigie's close,
Run an' ye'll catch him at the cross.

Boby pursued him wi' a' speed,
Roarin' " Daft Jamie gee's my head ;"
Boby caught him an' gave him blows,
Which soon made blude come frae his nose.

Published by WILLIAM SMITH, 3 Bristo Port.—PRICE ONE PENNY.Who but I quoth Finlay

A New Song
Much in Request
Sung with it's own proper Tune.

THere dwells a Man into thisTown,
some say they call him Finlay,
He is a brisk and able Man
O! if I knew but Finlay.

His Reputation was so great
that him I did seek after;
And when I found him did intreat
he'd tryst with me thereafter,

Quoth Finlay, if I come to you,
give me none of your ill words;
Tho I say No, to you at first,
be sure that ye come forewards.

Then promis'd he to come that Night;
and my Chamber I was keeping,
He chapped gently at the Door?
for fear I had been sleeping,

Who's that at my Chamber Door ?
and who but I quoth Finlay
Lown Carle come no farther,
indeed not I quoth Finlay.

Who's that at my Bed-side,
and who but I quoth Finlay,
Lown Carle had thee there;               
indeed not I quoth Finlay.

Of all the Men I ever did see,
there's none I love like Finlay,
He was both courteous, stout, and free,
my Heart's delight is Finlay.

FINIS."The Deil's Boolin' Match"

ON

MONTROSE    GREEN.

The nicht was dismal, dark, and drear,
Nae lichtsome star did e'er appear
To gie the worthy burghers cheer
In Auld Montrose.
The boolin' green, as Egypt's night
Deserted, lay a waesome sicht,
For lang before, ilk joyful wight
Had sought repose.

Methought I waunered doon the brae
Where oft in simmer's golden day
I'd joined the boolers in their play
And merry pranks;
An' made leal freens and cronies dear,
Whose kindly welcome aye gave cheer.
I count them a' as richt guid gear,
An' tend them thanks.

That nicht, howe'er as Rab wad say,
The deil, some evil work wud hae,
Rampagin' roon to find some prey
Tae glut his ire ;
As shrieked the nor' wind ower the toon
A thund' rous crash rang out aboon,
An' to the sward the deil cam doon
In car o' fire.

He made straight for the boolhoose door
Twa red-hot bools dumped on the floor,
" I want a rink! " I heard his roar.
But a' was still.
"This nicht wi' mortals I maun wage
A deadly combat—here's the gage—
My crown and power ! " he yelled wi' rage.
" My roastin' grill! "

He bragged aboot his pooer and might;
Hoo nane could worst him in the fight.
"Twas plain tae see this deevlish wight
Was nae sma' drink.
" Come ! who will play ? "    I heard the yell
As twelve boomed on the Steeple bell,
And then—" I'll tak' ye on mysel' !—
I'll skip a rink!"

Syne leaped my heart, I yelled oot " Fine !
This fechtin' wark is in your line! "
The deil glowered, " Ye're nae freen o' mine
At kirk or green."
'Twas Thomson, he o' heart sae leal,
Who bauldly faced his foe, the deil,
" I'll get a rink tae mak' ye squeal—
A rink sae keen."

An' in the twinklin' o' an eye
The stalwart form o' Marr I spy,
Followed by Martin—syne Mackay.
Weel picked the three.
For oft I'd seen them on the green
Contendin' stern as sportsmen keen ;
But now they'd sterner work, I ween,
To bear the gree.

" An' wha's your rink! " " E.T." did speir,
As ither ghoulish forms drew near.
" Deil's like mysel'!"    Nick answered drear.
" Ye ken my sons —
Macbeth and Nero, lang syne dead,
Fu' black an' grim the lives they led.
The Kaiser jinked me—sent in his stead
One o' the Huns !"

The game began, the bools flew fast,
An' ower the sward a gleam is cast
That ne'er on land or sea had passed
For mony a nicht;
Sin' Tam o' Shanter in the mirk
Saw phantoms revel in the kirk,
Syne chased him hame ower brae and birk—
An eerie sicht.

The deil's rink were a cunnin" crew
As to their maister's bid they drew,
An' frae the bools the fire sparks flew
When they were hit.
But Thomson's men strove micht an' main,
Tho' beaten yince they tried again,
An' " Clootie's " wiles were a' in vain
'Gainst Thomson's grit.

A goblin crood had lined the banks,
Rattlin' their fetters, chains and branks
(I saw some boolers in their ranks—
Some artfu' loons!)
They cheered their maister lang an' lood
Till Thomson lay a bool sae good—
Fair on the jack—he faced the crood
An' cracked his thooms.

The final end—the game was square,
Marr to the jack, an' inch, nae mair,
Had drawn a bool wi' muckle care ;
Sae did Mackay.
" Come on the fore !—juist draw tae me ! "
Thomson did cry wi' unfeigned glee.
"A bonny bool!    Yer hand, ' W. P.'
That yin will lie ! "

The deil's lips wore an ugly grin
As doon the green his bool did spin.
It " wick'd " an' whummelled its way in
Straight to the kitty.
He danced an' pranced wi' muckle glee.
" The shot! " he cries;  " beat that," says he.
" Deil's luck is mine! "  Syne cried " E. T."—
"The mair's the pity ! "

Wi' lips stern set, the skip aimed true,
Straight for the jack his good bool flew;
Silent the goblin watchers grew;
Nae mair the boast.
Into the ditch went jack and bowl,
An' lay there safely cheek by jowl.
The deil let oot a waefu' howl—
" I've lost!    I've lost! "

A thunder clap !—the air grew chill;
The storm had passed and all was still,
An' o'er the woods o' Rossie's hill
The moon arose.
The Steeple reared its spire on high,
I waked to see a starlit sky,
The deil had gone—without good-bye—
From Auld Montrose.

But on the green, as ye can see
The marks as plain as plain can be,
For Dakers pointed oot tae me
The very spot
Where Nickum's hinmpst bool had lain,
Till wi' that drive o' micht and main
The meenister the point hae taen,
An' won the shot.

R. D. M.  A DAY WI'   THE    RABBITS 

AT WEST PRESTON, KIRKBEAN.

A Blackbird, a Craw, a Swan, and a Lamb
Ae day wi' the Forrester met on the Sands ;
Says the yin to the ither, " the rabbits are thrang ;
" Could we no' get a day to gie them a bang ?"

So it was agreed to the Forrest to gang,
To talk owre the matter and ha' a bit dram ;
The Blackie he sang and the Swan he did swear,
They'd shoot any two for a fiver or mair.

The day it was fixed and duly came roun',
But, oh, what a day !—rain and snaw baith came doon ;
But this didna stop them, they out with their guns,
And in wi' the ferrits to a' likely runs;

The Blackie and Swan gaed awa' by the Mills,
The Lamb and the Craw gaed wi' Bob to the Hills ;
The Forrester wi' Pears gaed down the Burnside,
Wi' the Wyllie auld fox to act as chief guide.

Out, out came the rabbits ; bang, bang went the guns ;
Then, Oh ! the loud laughter, and Oh ! the rare fun ;
To see the two Cracks could miss an old Buck—
Of course, no' bad shooting, but cursed bad luck.

They shot and they shot, till driven off by the rain,
Then they bethought them to count out the game ;
Each claimed his due share, some tried to claim more ;
Then came the swearing, and the Lamb was a " Bore."

When each had his say, came a sough frae the Mills,
The Blackie shot well, but the Swan had more kills ;
But Pears swore by a" things baith dead and alive,
That Forrester killed more than ony o' the five.

The Wyllie old fox held the cat's-----to the sun,
Then Pears swore the more by the Forrester's gun ;

He swore by the sun, the moon, and the day,
Bold Forrester had only let four away.

The Craw he was sick frae the night's-before drinking,
His hand wasna steady, his een were blink, blinking ;
But he swore it was only because o' his drought—
He'd shoot ony one of them for a' they were worth.

The Lamb, in his usual nice quiet style,
Said never a word till they got off their bile ;
When wee Robin Red Breast caused a great row
By swearing the Lamb let away only tow.

Then the Wyllie old fox thought it time to disperse,
And hoped soon to meet them again on the Merse ;
So after hand-shaking they a' left the Park,
Resolved to get home before it was dark.

The Lamb and the Swan both gaed the ae gaet,
Arrived duly home before it was late ;
The other three swore by the George they were dry,
So to quench their bit thirst they thought they would try.

And its rumoured about that when they sat down,
The talk it grew loud and the drink it flew roun';
That when they got up they were no' very steady,
But lucky for them it was dark in the city.

But this must be false, and untrue every line,
For the Blackie drinks only a wee drap o' wine ;
The Forrester sticks to auld Scotia's creation,
And the Craw he drinks only in due moderation.

So I canna believe that the rumour's correct,'
For we never would charge them wi' such like neglect;
But perhaps it is better the curtain should fall
On the fact they got home about half-past twal.Arab's Farewell to his Horse.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular production can always be had in
the Poet's box

My beautiful! my beautiful! that standest meekly by,
With thy proudly arch'd and glossy neck, and dark and fiery
eye,
Fret not to roam the desert now with all thy winged speed,
I may not mount on thee again-thou art sold, my Arab
steed.
Fret not with that impatient hoof, snuff not the breezy wind,
The further that thou fliest now, so far am I behind.
The stranger hath thy bridle rein-thy master hath his gold-
Fleet limbed and beautiful, farewell, thou'rt sold, my steed,
thou'rt sold.
Farewell, these free untired limbs full many a mile must
roam,
To reach the chill and wintry sky which clouds the stran-
ger's home.
Some other hand, less fond, must now thy corn and bed
prepare-
The silky mane I braided once must be another's care.
The morning sun shall dawn again, but never more with thee
Shall I gallop through the desert paths where we were wont
to be.
Evening shall darken on the earth, and o'er the sandy plain,
Some other steed, with slower step, shall bear me home
again.
Yes, thou must go, the wild free breeze, the brilliant sun
and sky,
Thy master's home, from all of these my exiled one must fly.
Thy proud dark eye will grow less proud, thy step become
less fleet,
And vainly shalt thou arch thy neck thy master's hand to
meet.
Only in sleep shall I behold that dark eye glancing bright;
Only in sleep shall hear again that step so firm and light;
And when I raise my dreaming arm to check and cheer thy
speed,
Then must I startling wake to feel thou'rt sold, my Arab
steed.
Ah! rudely then, unseen by me, some cruel hand may chide,
Till foam-wreathes lie, like crested waves, along thy panting
side,
And the rich blood that is in thee swells in thy indignant
pain,
Till careless eyes, which rest on thee, may count each started
vein.
Will they ill-use thee? If I thought-but no it cannot be-
Thou art so swift yet easy curbed, so gentle yet so free.
And yet, if haply when thou'rt gone, my lonely heart should
yearn,
Can the hand which casts thee from it now command thee
to return?
Return, alas! my Arab steed, what shall thy master do,
When thou who wert his all of joy hath vanished from his
view;
When the dim distance cheats mine eye, and, through the
gathering tears,
Thy bright form for a moment like the false mirage appears,
Slow and unmounted will I roam, with weary foot alone,
Where with fleet step and joyous bound thou oft has borne
me on.
And sitting down by that green well I'll pause and sadly
think,
It was here he bowed his glossy neck when last I saw him
drink.
When last I saw thee drink?   Away! the fevered dream is
o'er,
I could not live a day and know that we should meet no
more.
They tempted me, my beautiful! for hunger' s power is strong,
They tempted me, my beautiful! but I have loved too long.
Who said that I'd giv'n thee up, who said that thou wert
sold?
'Tis false, 'tis false, my Arab steed, I fling them back their
gold;
Thus, thus, I leap upon thy back and scour the distant plains,
Away! who overtakes us now shall claim thee for his pains.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon,

Saturday morning, June 5, 1869.FITBA'  WULL

Sung with success by JAMES EWEN.
Air.—"Oor Jock's a handy chappie."  

Copies of this popular Song can always be at the Poet's Box

 182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.



I am, ye see, a weaver, freens,

                    Jist cam' f'rae Vinegar Hill, 

Tae sing aboot a son o' mine's
That's nicknamed Fitba' Wull.
               He used to be as quate's mouse,

An' went to Sunday Schule,
              But noo ha's boss ower a' the hoose,  

An' dis jist what he will.
Spoken—Ay, freens, I've seen the time when oor Wull wad gang

a' the messages for his mither, an' stey  in at nicht an' hand the waen;

but noo he maun ha'e his bellmouthed strides, his wee bit coat, an' 

ane o' the keelie bonnets wi' the long skips—the rale fecht-if-you-can
style. An', tae croon a', he's joined a Fitba' Club, an' naething's safe
noo that comes within' reach o' his feet, for he'll kick onything frae
a tin can doon tae a hauf deid cat. He's an awfu' chairger tae; he's
on feart tae chairge a blin' man or a cripple, if they're kinna delicate
luckin'. He's a splendid dodger tae when the boby's aifter him—
an' mak's mair fowls in an 'oor thin a poulterer could sell in a month.
But talk aboot yer cairter's trip—it's naething tae the trips ye get at
Fitba', an' miu' ye, ye never need tae pay a faurden for them, ye get
them a' for naething -but that's neither here nor there, I've jist cam
here tae tell ony o' ye that used tae ken oor Wull when he was
sick a quate wee chap that ye widna ken him—For

CHORUS.

A change has come ower Wully,
For Fitba' he's gaun silly,
He kicks my hat, he kicks the cat, an' chairges at the

               weans

He dribbles roun' table,
An' mak's the hoose like Babel,
The neebors a' declare oor Wull's got Fitba' on the brain

He's jined the Causey Dribbler's Club,

That plays on Glesca Green,
An' bounces that they often drub

The Elin' Asylum Team.
He says that they ha'e often bate,

MacLeod's Wax Figuers tae,
An' tells at an awfu' rate

Aboot his ain Club's plays.

Noo, when a frindly game begins,

Wull's Club aye tak's the prize
For brakin' legs, an' kickin' shins,

Or swarin' lots o' lies.
An' if they win, wi speech an' sang,

The nicht's passed in a pub ;

But if they lose, they get a gang

  Tae slug the ither club.



Spoken—It's a fact if ye beats Wull's club at Fitba' ye have tae
fecht them aifter. Sac I'd abvise ony o' ye that's gaun tae jine a
Fitba' club tae practise wi' the dumb-bells nicht an'mornin', or learn

tae box -ye'll need it-an' if ever ye play against Wull's club, fetch

a stracher an' twa or three pair o' stults alang wi' ye. an say yer pray. 

ers before ye begin,for min,'I tell you 

A change has come, &c.
"Jock M ' Whurtle."            


Ma name is Jock M ' Whurtle, I'm a dorby tae ma trade,                  
But noo I've got a steadier job, I'm listed as a swade ;                    
An' when at first I took the bob, O, I was green an' raw,
But they vera sune made a man o' me in the gallant Forty Twa.

CHORUS—                                                                                        

Oh, what dae ye think o' ma tarten, an' hoo dae ye like ma hose ;  
This is a manly form that's been built on Scottish brose ;             
If ye dinna jine the airmy, yer for nae use ava,                             
For its gran' tae be a sodjer in the gallant Forty Twa.

At first when in the awkward squad, I gaed on tae the square,         
The Sergeant drill'd me up an' doon till ma vera banes were sair ;   
Man, stan'up straight, haud up yer heid, an' gie me nae back jaw,
Or I'll mak ye vera sorry that ye'ye jined the Forty Twa.

Noo ae week-end I got a pass tae gang an' see ma folk,                  
An' a' ma freens cam turnin' oot tae see their sodjer Jock ;                
As I gaed mairchin' up the street, admired by ane an' a',
The folk a' cried, hip, hip, hoorah, three cheers for the Forty Twa. 

A sodjer's life is nae sae bad as some folk they will say ;                  
Ye hae yer wark an' money for't, an' plenty time to play ;
Ye hae yer choice o' regiments, a' gallant, smairt, an' braw,            
But tak ye Jock M ' Whurtle's tip, an' jine the Forty Twa.                

Noo freens I'll finish ma little sang aboot the guid auld corps ;
But this I'll say, in peace or war they're always tae the fore ;          
In love, or sport, or fechtin', they're never far awa ;                        
Here's luck tae Scotland's heathery hills an' the gallant Forty Twa.Bingen on the Rhine.

PRICE  ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular recitation can only be had in
the Poet's Box, 

A soldier of the Legion lay dying in Algiers,
There was lack of woman's nursing, there was dearth of woman's tears;                                                
But a comrade stood beside him, while his life-blood ebbed away'
And bent, with pitying glances, to hear what he might say:
The dying soldier faltered, as he took that comrade's hand,
And he said: "I never more shall see my own, my native land;
Take a message and a token to some distant friends of mine,
For I was born at Bingen-at Bingen on the Rhine.

" Tell my brothers and companions, when they meet and crowd around,
To hear my mournful story, in the pleasant vineyard ground,
That we fought the battle bravely; and when the day was done,
Full many a corpse lay ghastly pale beneath the setting sun.
And 'midst the dead and dying were some grown old in wars-
The death-wound on their gallant breasts, the last of many scars;                                                           
But some were young, and suddenly beheld life's morn decline;
And one had come from Bingen-fair Bingen on the Rhine.

"Tell my mother that her other sons shall comfort her old age,
And I was aye a truant bird, that thought his home a cage;
For my father was a soldier, and, even as a child,
My heart leaped forth to hear him tell of struggles fierce and wild;
And when he died, and left us to divide his scanty hoard,
I let them take whate'er they would, but kept my father's sword;                                                        
And with boyish love I hung it where the bright light used to shine,
On the cottage wall at Bingen-calm Bingen on the Rhine!

"Tell my sister not to weep for me, and sob with drooping head,
When the troops are marching home again, with glad and gallant tread;                                                     
But to look upon them proudly, with a calm and steadfast eye'
For her brother was a soldier too, and not afraid to die.
And if a comrade seek her love, I ask her in my name
To listen to him kindly, without regret or shame;         
And to hang the old sword in its place (my father's sword and mine),
For the honour of old Bingen-dear Bingen on the Rhine!

" There's another-not a sister; in the happy days gone by,
You'd have known her by the merriment that sparkled in her eye;
Too innocent for coquetry-too fond for idly scorning,-
O friend, I fear the lightest heart makes sometimes heaviest mourning!
Tell her the last night of my life (for ere this moon be risen
My body will be out of pain-my soul be out of prison)
I dreamed I stood with her, and saw the yellow sunlight shine 
On the vine-clad hills of Bingen-fair Bingen on the Rhine!

"I saw the blue Rhine sweep along; I heard, or seemed to hear,
The German songs we used to sing in chorus sweet and clear;
And down the pleasant river, and up the slanting hill,
That echoing chorus sounded, through the evening calm and still;
And her glad blue eyes were on me, as we passed with friendly talk                                                   
Down many a path beloved of yore, and well-remembered walk;
And her little hand lay lightly, confidingly in mine;-
But we'll meet no more at Bingen-lovely Bingen on the Rhine!"

His voice grew faint and hoarser; his grasp was childish weak;
His eyes put on a dying look; he sighed, and ceased to speak.
His comrade bent to lift him, but the spark of life had fled;
The soldier of the Legion in a foreign land-was dead!
And the soft moon rose up slowly, and calmly she looked down                                                           
On the red sand of the battle-field, with bloody corpses strown
Yea, calmly on that dreadful scene her pale light seemed to shine,
As it shone on distant Bingen-fair Bingen on the Rhine!

Saturday morning, 27th July, 1867.DEATH OF GEN. GORDON.

Across the vast Soudan was borne,
While England bowed her head,
The  words  which   thrilled each British
heart.
"Our mighty Hero s dead."
With bated breath we heard that praise,
Which buries hope —" too late !"
For honour ! General Gordon lived—
For honour met his fate,

Chorus

Too late ! too late to save him,
Too late ! in vain we tried
Fighting for those who loved him ,
A hero's death he died,
Too late ! yet Gordon's story,
A deathless charm imparts,
He died for England's glory,
He lives in England  s hearts.

Cut off— abandoned—at Khartoum,
Far out in the soudan,
One man against ten thousand stood;
And he an Englishman !
For near one year, the whole world gazed
And praised him with one breath;
Think of it, Englishmen! and know
What s meant by Gordon's death.

Too late—to argue now the cause,
For which his blood was shed—
Too late—to think what might have been
Too late—the Hero's dead.
This not the time, nor ours the task,
On whom to fix the blame ;
On those who left him in his  need
Will rest the load of shame.LINES WRITTEN  ON  THE OCCASION

OF  THE

Anniversary of the Battle of Bannockburn,

JUNE   24th,   1893.

Inscribed to Wallace Bruce, Esq., American Consul at Edinburgh, and Theodore Napier, Esq.
of Magdala, President of the Scottish National Association of Victoria, on the occasion of
their unfurling the Scottish Standard and British Ensign from the Flagstaff at the Borestone.

THE grand June sun with regal sway
Has through the solstice gone
Four times since on that happy day
At this, our old " Borestone,"
The Scot revered throughout the world
The Banner of the Bruce unfurled.

And Stirling's Provost Yellowlees
With presence brave and strong,
And bracing as a mountain breeze
Addressed a countless throng
With brilliant speech, and with Macrae.
Brought down applause from bank and brae.

While, who that saw can e'er forget
The glories of that day,
Those mighty crowds, I see them yet
All stretching far away,
The martial music still I hear,
Filling alike both soul and ear.

The years go on, and still we find
A true succession here,
The patriot heart, the loyal mind
Are with us year by year,
They gather home from many lands,
And join as brothers in our bands.

Thus, Wallace Bruce, thy king-like name
Comes with a potent spell,
Thou Patriot Poet of noble fame
Who loves our country well,
While Scottish hearts both far and near
Accord thee royal welcome here.

And Napier, how shall words express
In common speech to thee,
How Scotland's heart goes forth to bless
Her sons far o'er the sea,
How mother-love so warm and true
Goes from the old world to the new.

A mighty host to-day will cheer
For Bruce on every side,
And our majestic hills shall hear
And answer far and wide ;
The Abbey Craig shall once again
Take up the note in bold refrain.

While Stirling Castle once the seat
Of Scottish Kings shall fire,
The Bruce and Thistle drums shall beat
And all our hearts inspire,
And martial men shall grandly tread
The ground where Bruce to victory led.

Come, Wallace Bruce, come Theodore *
From countries far away,
Your names shall live in classic lore
The heroes of this day ;
Historians of a future age
Shall write your words in history's page.

And, oh ! while on these hallow'd heights
Inspired by holiest zeal,
For dear old Scotia's sacred rights,
Her sons and daughters weal,
Bless God, that not for battle cry
Men gather now to do or die.

That peace within our blood bought land
Sits throned on every hill,
Nor brother falls by brother's hand,
But love and best good will
Encircle as a golden zone
This gathering at our old Borestone.

AGNES H. BOWIE.
*Theodore Napier.

MARY LE MORE

As I stray'd o'er the common on Cork's rugged border.
While the dew-drops of morn the sweet primrose array d,
I saw a poor female, whose mental disorder,
Her quick-glancing eye and wild aspect betray'd.
On the sward she reelin'd by the green forn surrounded,
By her side speckled daisies and  wild  flowers abounded,
To its inmost recesses her heart had been wounded,
Her sighs were unseasing — 'twas Mary la More.

Her charms by the keen blasts sorrow were faded
Yet the soft tinge of beauty   still play d on her cheek;
Her tresses a wreath of primroses braided,
And strings of fresh daises hung loose on her neck.
Whilo with pity I gazed, she exclaimed "O my mother !
See the blood on that lash' 'tis the blood of my brother,
I'hey have torn his poor flesh!—& they now strip another
'Tis Connor— tho friend of poor Mary le More.

Though his locks were as white as the foam of the ocean
Those wretches shall fine that my father is brave ;
My father! she cried with tne wildest emotion,
Ah, no, my poor father now sleep in the grave ;
They have toll'd his death bell, they've laid the turf o'er
him
His white locks were b'oody, on aid could restore him,
He is gone! he is gone! and the good will deplore him,
When the blue waves  of Erin bide Mary le More.

A lark from the gold blossom'd furso that grow near her,
Now rose, and with energy caroll'd his lay ;
Hush: hush !' she continued,' tho trumpet sounds clearer
The horsemen approach: Erin's daughter's away !
   Ah ! soldiers, twas foul, while the cabin was burning.
And o'er a palo father a wretch had been mourning—
Go hide with the sea-mew, ye maids and take Warning,
Those ruffians have ruin'd poor Mary le More.

Away ! bring the ointment—O, God! see the gashes!
Alas ! my poor brother ! come dry the big tear!
Anon we'll have vengeance for those dreadful lashes,
Already the screech-owl and raven appear,
By day tho green grave, that lies under the willow,
With wild flow'rs I'll strow, and by night make my pillow
Till the ooze and dark  sea-weed, beneath tho curl'd  bil
low,
Shall furnish a death-bed for Mary le More.

Thus raved the poor maniac, in tones more heart-rending
Than sanity's voice ever poured on my ear ;
When lo ! on tho waste, and the march towords her
bonding
A troop of fierce cavalry chanced to appear,
'O, the.fiends  she exclaimed, and with wild horror start-
ed,
Then through the tall [   ] loudly screaming darted ;
With an overcharged bosom slowly departed,
And sigh'd for tho wrongs of poor Mary la More

Robt. Mintosh Printer.96 King Street Calton.SODGER JOCK

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular Comic Song can always be had at 80 London St.,
Glasgow.

TUNE—" Coal Jock."

	Noo, chaps and wunches a',
	Div I no look reg'lar braw,
Since I 'listed for a sodger in the ranks ?
	Od ! I've got a braw new hat,
	This thingamybob, an' that,
And some twenty yards o' tartan round my
	        flanks.

CHORUS.

	I can march or staund at ease,
	Or shoot rifles on my knees ;
I can walk as strecht as ony o' them a'
	I can halt, or I can wheel;
	Od! I'm up tae a' the drill,
But I wush this blastit choker was awa'.

	I've a pilly in my breast,
	I've a pilly in my breast,
But it seems to be the fashin' wi' them a',
	Och ! it doesna dae nae harm,
	And it helps to keep me warm—
It'll maybe keep the rifle balls awa'.
		I can march,  &c.

	It's better wi' a plaid
	O'er a body's shouther laid,
Than be mountit wi' a black coal pock ;
	An' a red coat looks as weel
	As black moleskin on a chief,
An' it looks a deil sicht better on Coal Jock.
		I can march, &c.

	It's a better life for me
	Than coal weighin' on the quay,
To  be  dreelin'   round  about   the   Castle
	       Square;
	An' ye never want a meal,
	For it's brocht up in a pail—
Jist as muckle's ye can wrastle wi', an'
	      mair.
		 I can march, &c.

	But it's chawin' if ye be
	Wi' your chums upon the spree
An' the bugle, blastit humbug, sounds the
	 "ca';"
	Ye maun rise and tak' the rout,
	Double-quick-march—wheel about—
Toss your gless aff, say—" guid nicht," an'
            come awa'.
		I can march, &c.

	Says oor sairgent jist the day,
	" Jock ! ye'll sune be gauu awa'
Oot tae Indy, for tae fecht the Blacky-
	      moors;"
	But I'll tak' my rifle heft,
	And I'll paste them richt and left,
An' I'll dimple  in their goblets wi' the
	cloors.
		I can march, &c.


	Wull I no be on my legs
	Wi' the sugar an' the fegs,
An' the cockernits in thumpers like my
	     head?
	Oh ! new glories wait for Jock,
	I'll get plenty there to smoke,
An' get oringers an' trecle fur a feed.
		I can march, &c.

	When the heavy swells gang by,
	I maun boo, an' they reply ;
They jist speak to me the same as ither folk;
	I'm as proud's a parish priest
	Wi' a pillow in my breest;
Hooch! they've made a perfect gentleman
	   o' Jock.
		I can march, &c.

	I've a brush an' reddin' kaim
	In my knapsack a' at hame,
An' a 'bawky box o' blacknin' for my bits ;
	An' some whitnin'-I was telt
	For tae rub upon my belt,
An' their splasher-dasher things upon my
	     clitts.
		I can march, &c.

	Sic braw stockin's ne'er wur wore
	On a carter's shanks before;
But   there's   jist   yae   thing  aboot   them
	     bauthers me,
	For I canna see the way
	'At the ither fellows tie
This fancy knot o' ribbons at the knee.
		I can march, &c.

	I could plett as guid a whup
	As the nieve could wish tae grup,
And I'll tie her on the wuddie wi' the best,
	But I'm dasht if I can fa'
	On this blastit knot at a'—
I'm just ten times langer tyin't than the
	     rest.
		I can march, &c.

	But my frien's, I maun be gaun,
	Or the bugle 'll be blawn,
An' they'll lock me in the guard-room right
	    an' tight,
	So I want to get the stripes,
	An' tae learn tae play the pipes,
An' of coorse I maun be dacent-so guid
	    nicht !

		CHORUS.

	I can march or staun' at case,
	Or shoot rifles on my knees ;
I can walk as strecht as ony o' them a',
	I can halt, or I can wheel—
	Pooh ! I'm up tae a' the dreel—
There's  the bugle!    Chaps, guid micht !
             I maun awa'.

Saturday, May 22, 1886.

P.D.—15-1-76.SONG.

Air—He's o'er the Hills.

THEY'RE dear to me, the hills of Perth,
Those rolling floods, these golden plains,
The home of joy, the land of worth,
Where beauty smiles and valour reigns!

These rocks and glens are dear to me,
Those shady groves that waive so fair;
Each hall, each bower, each cot I see,
And the loyal hearts that shelter there.

Our Lords, our Squires, are brave and good,
Our honest Yeomen frank and free;
In heart united long they've stood,
May discord ne'er among them be!

Our Peasants ply their cheery toil,
No hate, no rancour clouds their brow ;
They love and bless the grateful soil,
Whose harvest crowns their prosp'rous plough.

When lawless men with daring hand,
Assail each prized, each sacred thing,
Here Loyalty will take her stand
For Scotland's laws, for Britain's King.

For Church and State we'll still contend,
By courage cheered, by duty led;
And firm with heart and voice defend
The cause for which our fathers bled;

Such was the spirit ATHOLL breathed,
The patriot Duke we hail no more ;
In yonder woods his fame is wreathed,
Their echoes still his fate deplore.

And MELVILLE'S name can ne'er be lost,
Whose column decks his loved domain ;
The poor man's friend, his country's boast—
We ne'er shall see his like again !

And mark, on FERNTOWER'S friendly hill,
Yon answering pillar lifts its head;
'T is there with noble sorrow still,
The widow weeps her hero dead.

Yet, Lady, dry the fruitless tear,
Let glory's thoughts thy woe allay;
With India's trophies round his bier,
Thy husband's deeds can ne'er decay.

Though these, alas! and more, are gone.
We grieve not as of all bereft ;
MONTROSE and MANSFIELD are our own.
And good STRATHALLAN still is left.

O, bright are DUPLIN'S flowery lawns,
Her lawns are bright, her MASTER'S true—
Secure we look to fair KINFAUNS,
And the bonny house of AIRLEY too.

And far up Tay's green banks are found,
Among the foe, a faithful band,
The MENZIES there fast holds his ground,
'Gainst Campbell's proud encroaching hand.

We boast KILGRASTON'S soft retreat,      
Where Earn pursues her silver way;
And stedfast are the hearts that beat
" Among the Birks of INVERMAY."

' T were vain the long array to sing
Whose names might well the song inspire;
But yet again I'11 touch the string,
To sound " The Braes of OCHTERTYRE."

And HE, the valiant in the fight,
The Statesman wise, the Friend long tried.
He pleaded well for Scotland's right,
To HIM our cause we'll still confide.

When doubts and fears, in gloomy train,
And threatening dangers round appear,
Ne'er may we raise the cry in vain,
" O, would that MURRAY now were here !"

With HIM to guide, and such as HE,
The hour of darkness soon is o'er;
Our Country's safe, our King is free.
And Peace and Order thine once more!TARGIN TALLYO.

A NEW  SONG.

I am the king of sporting blades,
In Dublin City used to abide,
For courting the pretty fair maids,
Both far and near;
I have been in Italy and,
I have been in France and Spain,
Sicily and Germany,
And now I am back home again.

First when I did enlist,
A bold recruit about sixteen,
I had a play boy like my wrist,
That made the lasses fond and keen,
The Colonel's Lady fancied me,
Abroad with her to come and go,
When she heard I had the fusee,
They call the Targin Tallyo.

But she fain would know or feel the truth
I pull'd out my rusty blade,
Which my two hands could scarcely spang ,
With trembling voice she thus replied,
Ha ha' ye'll be my waiting man,
Straight to the colonel she went,
This request to her was granted,
In servants livery I was drest,
Abroad with my  Mistress to come and go,
Because she knew I had the long fuze,
They call the Targin Tally o'
But when the colonel come
Of this sad news to know
He lodg'd a bullet in my groin
Which graz'd my Targin Tallyo,

The pretty maids and widow'd wives
They all flock round me in a row
And filthy gades crying alas!
Alas ! poor Tallyo
Six weeks I lay then on my back
Till at length my wound began to mend
And Tallyo he got that stiff
He scarce would bend
I was oblig'd to tye him to my thigh
For fear that he should master grow
He cock'd his head and the tye he broke
And there's an end to my Tallyo.
The Bonnie Lass that
would lie in a barrack.

Let the soldier be where he may, there also will you see
the choicest of the fair. Who is it that does not feel, among
the pretty maids, the same emotion in their bosom as the
" Bonnie Lassie" felt, when she addressed herself to her
sweetheart? Both of which the subject of this song is so
beautifully put together about. The military men certainly
ought to be proud of themselves, for they are highly ho-
noured indeed, with the sweet little creatures they love.

AIR—0 say bonnie lass will ye lie in a barrack.

O say bonnie lass will ye lie in a barrack,
And marry a sodger, and carry his wallet?
O say will ye leave baith your mammy and daddy
And go to the wars with your sodger laddie?
O say will ye leave baith your mammy and daddy                    
And go to the wars with your sodger laddie?

O yes, bonnie lad, I will lie in a barrack,
And marry a sodger and carry his wallet;
I'll neither ask leave of my mammy or daddy,
But aff and away with my dear sodger laddie;
And I'll neither ask leave of mammy or daddy,
But aff and away with my dear sodger laddie.

O say bonnie lassie will ye go a campaigning,
And bear all the hardships of battle and famine!      
When wounded and bleeding, then wilt thou draw near me,
And kindly support me, and tenderly cheer me.
O say will you leave baith your mammy and daddy,
And go to the wars with your sodger laddie?

O yes, I will brave all the perils you mention,
And twenty times more if you had the invention;
Neither hunger, nor cold, nor dangers alarm me,
While I have my Harry, my dearest, to charm me:
Neither hunger, nor cold, nor dangers alarm me,                 
While I have my Harry, my dearest, to charm me.THE BONNIE
Lassie's Answer.

Farewell to Glasgow,
Likewise to Lanarkshire,
And farewell my dearest parents,
For I'll never see you mair ;
For the want of pocket money,
And for the want of cash,
Makes a mony a bonny laddis,
To leave his bonny lass.

CHORUS.

For I am forced to go, my love
Where no one shall me know
Bat the bonnie lassiesanswer,
Was aye, no, no.

For the Queen is wanting men,
And I for one must go,
And it's for my life love,
I dare not answer no.
0 stay at hame my bonny lad,
And dinna gang afar,
For little, little, do you know,
Of the dangers of the war.
But I am bound, &c.
It's I'll cut off my yellow hair,
And go along with you,
And be your faithful comrade,
In some forreign country.
Stay at hame, my bonnie lass,
And dinna gang wi' me,
For little, little, do you know,
Of the dangers of the sea.
But I am bound, &c.
He lifted up her lily hand,
And laid it on his heart,
And said my bonnie lassie,
From you I canna part.
The fervent love I have to you,
Is constant, true, and kind,
You're always present to my view,
And never from my mind.
But I am forced.
Farewell to Cathkin's bonny braes,
Where oft' time I ha'e been;
And farewell to the banks of Clyde,
And bonny Glasgow Green.
Farewell my loving comrades dear,
I own my heart is sair,
Farewell, for aye, my bonny Jean,
For I'll ne'er see ye mair,
For I am forced, &c.THE LAST SHOT.

THIS POPULAR  RECITATION CAN ALWAYS BE HAD AT POET'S Box, Overgte Dundee.

Three to ride and to save, one to ride and to be saevd-
That's the key of my tale, boys, deep on my heart engra-
	ved.
With death before and behind,   through  dangers many
	and nigh,
Four to ride together, and three of the four to die.
There was the Captain's daughter,    a young and delicate
	girl,
With her baby face and shining eyes, and hair of sunniest
	curl;
She looked like a beautiful flower,    too slight to be even
	caressed,
Yet never had hero braver heart than beat in that girlish
	breast.
And then there was Sargent Gray,    a martinest old and
	grim  ;
The worst of tyrants that ever lived was a lamb compared
	to him ;
Ne'er-dae-weel Duglas next, a Borderer born and bred,
With a sin on his soul for every hair that grew on his
	handsome head.
And then there was  Fighting Denis-Denis the stout of
	heart,
Foremost in every row and brawl,    skilled in the "manly
	art;"
Take the three altogether, the truth is, old and young,
They were  three o' the greatest scmps,    boys,  that ever
	deserved to be hung.
What was she  doing,  you  ask,  me alone with fellows
	lailke these,
Down on the Gauges' bank, hid 'mong the mango trees ?
Well, she couldn't help herself, could only wait and pray,
And they, they were doing their duty as well as they
	knew they way.
Slowly the read moon rose, and then the sargent spok-
"Pat, look to the horses' girth; Grahm, give the lady this
	clock;
Now, miss, be your  father's daughter, our lads are  close
	below.
The horses are fresh,   and the road is clear, and we've only
	fivemiles to go."
Then spoke the Captain's daughter,    and her voice was
	weak but clear-
"I want you to promise, brave friends, while we're altoga-
	egther here,
That you'll keep the last shot for me-when each heart of
	hope despairs ;
Better to die by hands like yours than be left alive in theirs.
The sergent cleared his throat,  and turned his face away ;
Denis,   the stout of hearts,  had never a word to say ;
And Douglas grasped his hilt with a look and gesture grin,
While he watched the the face o' the girl with eyes grown
	suddenly blurred and dim.
'Oh, you'll promise me,  will you not?" the weak voice pl
	eaded again,
"You   will  not leave  me to them-you-soldiers-my
	father's men?
For the sake of my mother in Heaven-and God and death
	so near--
Oh, father, you would, I know, if only you were here."
''I promise."  "And I." "And I." The voices were hoarse
	and low,
And each man prayed, I ween, that the task he might not
	know
As out on the plain they rode swiftly and silently-
Four to ride together, and three o' the four to die.

The sergent's charger led with a long and raking stride,
And the Arab's lighter bound kept the lady by his side,
While hanging on eather Hank, the watchers, steady and

	strong,
Swept on through the clouds of dust that rose as the lead
	ers thundered along.

Fire to the right and left, in front and rear,
As the dusky demons broke from their lurking ambush
	near-
"Noo,  Denis, boot tae boot-keep close betweew, you
	twa-
We've cut her a road through waurthan this, an-Charge!
	Hurrah ! Hurrah !"

As the lightning cleaver the clouds, as the tempest rends
	the oak,
The comrades headlong rush, the gathering miscreants
	broke ;
Unharmed through the yelling horde the Captan's daug-
	hter fled,
While thick and fast in firce pursuit the Sirdar's horsemen
	sped.

Up on the crest o' the rise where Canpore's curse of blood
Hushes with horror yet the wide and rolling flood,
Douglas reeled in his saddle,   and whispered prokenly-
'Gray, dinna let her ken,   but it'snear a ower wi'me."
"Hit?"'-"Ay, here in the side."-"Bad?"-"Aye bad,
	pshaw !
I'll face you hounds on the brae, it my gain ye a minute
	or twa-
Tak' my horse-ye may need it for her. Steady, there !-
	woa, there, Gem!-
Dinna forget your promise- yon lassie's on for them."

An iron grip o' the hands-a mist o'er the sergent's sight;
As he swiftly wheeled the horses and vanished in the night
Then round to the nearing foe, under the starry sky.
Alone with his  God and his own brave heart Grahame
	Douglas turned to die.
On came Hamed, the boastful- who so sure as he,
With his Siva-charmed sword, keen-edged, againest the
	Feringhee ?
Wo for Hamed, the boastful ! woe the mistake he made,
When he  matched his sword 'gainst a Border arm, and
	the sweep of a Border blade !
Then fighting it, thrust for thrust fighting it blow for blow
Till at last,   where the bank fell sheer to the dusky stream
	below,
He fell-a groan-a plunge-wave cirles eddying wide-
And the ne'er-dae-weel was still at last 'neath the rever's
	turbid tide.
"Scretcth to it, gallant Selim !-leap to it, Ned and Dan !
Well done, brave brutes ! Hurrah! Let them catch us now
	who can !"

On and on for life-for a higher, dearer stake-
For true men's chivalry-for a helples woman's sake !

A sputtre of fire on the right, a flame of fire in the rear,
And Gem leaped up and fell-another, and all too near
The hiasing bullets came, and them the sergent knew
His blood and life were ebbing away with every breath
	he drew.

Sore and deep the wound, but never a moan he made,
And rising straight in his saddle, erect as when on parade,
"Pat, if you get in, repot that Duglas and I are dead ;
Tell them we did our duty, and mind-your promise," he
	said

The maden checked her horse with a quick, wild scream of
	pain-
"Oh. Heaven, have pity !" she sobben, as Denis seized her
	rein;
Then, giving his last command-" Ride on !''-with impa-
	tient frown,
True British soldier to the last, the brave old man went
	down.THE  SECOND REGIMENT

O F

ROYAL EDINBURGH VOLUNTEERS.

A NEW SONG.— — —Tune, O'er the hills and far awa'.

I.     

ARISE and let us now repair
And go away to Heriot's Green,
The sun doth shine, the day is fair,
To see the Volunteers convene.
Assembled for their country's weel,
And  Britain's right for to assert,
All honest fellows, true and leel,
They come to learn the soldiers art.

II.

For France and Spain they now again
With numerous hosts do threaten sore
Us to invade, with might and main,
And make us captive on our shore.
But if they dare, let them beware
In case they should a Tartar catch ;
EDINA'S Sons will take good care,
And all their motions strictly watch.

III.

We don't expect they'll us invade,
Or ever will attempt to land ;
On Scotland's coast   to make parade,
Or anchors cast in Fortha's strand.
But if they will we'll meet them still;
At Carmagnol's we're not afraid,
To look and face the Gallic race,
That come our country to invade.

IV.

For great BUCCLEUGH, of martial deeds,
His country's champion first appears,
And to the field of honour leads
EDINA'S ROYAL VOLUNTEERS.
Next CRICHTON brave, forward to save
His country from th' impending blow,
Conducts the band, with sword in hand,
To hurl fell vengeance on the foe.

V.

Many brave names, who I not know,
All forward in the noble cause
It to defend, regard to show
Our KING, our COUNTRY, and our LAWS.
But, should proud Gaul, and vaunting Spain,
With hostile fleets, e'er us assail,
Our Gallant Tars, well fam'd in wars,
Will render that of no avail.

VI.

CORDOVA, of Castilian blood,
Hath not forgot that fatal day,
He met, unwish'd, the British Fleet
When sailing into Lago's Bay.
At Trinidad, the Dons of late
Their wonted courage did display,
Burnt ships at night, and in a fright,
Took to their boats and run away.WHEN

Comes Marching Home.

When Johnny comes marching homs again, hurrah ! hurrah
We'll give him a hearty welcome then, hurrah, hurrah; 
The  men will cheer, the boys will shout, the ladies they will
all turn out,
We'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home.

Chorus

The old church bells will peel with joy, hurrah, hurrah,
To welcome home our darling boy, hurrah, hurrah ;
The villiage lads and lasses say, with roses they will strew the
way,
And we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home

Both old and young of each degree, hurrah, hurrah,
Will run onr hero for to see, hurrah, hurrah;
And lads lads lasses on the green,
So merrily Dancing will be seen,
And well all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home.

He will tell us of the deeds he's done, hurrah, hurrah,
And all the battlhs he has won, hurrah, hurrah;
And how he made the foe to fly,
When death and victory was the cry,
And we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home.

Get ready for the Jubilee, hurrah, hurrah,
We'll give the hero three times three, hurrah, hurrah ;
The laurel wreath is ready now to place upon his loyal brow,
And we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home.

Let love and friendship on that day, hurrah, hurrah,
The choicest treasures then display, hurrah, hurrah;
And let each one perform some part,
To fill with joy the warrior's heart,
And we'll all feel gay when Johnny cones Marching home,HARMONIST.

I am going to be a Soldier Jenny.

In going for a soldier, Jenny,
Going o'er the rolling sea,
They've  given me a golden guinea,
That they say has listed me.
'Tis no use to fall a crying,
Give your senseless weeping o'er,
Many a day you have heard me sighing
You should have been kind before.

'Tis very fine and pretty, Jenny,
Now to wish that I should stay,
But, indeed, I'm thinking, Jenny,
We'll not meet this many a day.
What if heart and spirit sinking ?
What if I should come to shame?
Be it as it may, I'm thinking,
You alone will be to blame.

Long and dearly I have loved you,
As you must full well have known,
If I had not faithless proved you,
I had never reckless grown:
But, fare you well, the hours are flying
Time it is that I was gone, trying,
When next another heart you are
Jenny, look unto your own.

Dandy Servants.

Ye braw decent women I'll sing you a song , 
Of the wit of the auld and the pride of the young,
They are all grown sae gaudy, as lure as my life,
You'll hardly ken the servant frae the guidwife.
Down, down, hey derry down.

It's not of farmers' daughters nor tradesmens' indeed,
In which I intend to sing my new creed, 
It's of servant lasses that are getting sae braw,
That they outstrip their mistresses far and awa.

Their is some exceptions, I must confess,
I mean in behaviour, not in their dress,
For they dress all alike, and like dandies they go
And some of them are decent and some of them no,

Between six and seven the Miss goes to school,
Before she knows she is wise, or that she's a fool
There she learns to count and to write,
Till she's fi t for a lawyer  or something such like.

When schooling is over, to service she goes,
And then for high wages as you may suppose,
The first of it goes for a white muslin gown,
And a bonnet that would keep moonlight frae the town.

And down the bonnet their hangs a bit silk,                     
Which my old granny had serving her milk,
I own it was useful her beauty to grace,
For it hid all the wrinkles that was in her face.

She then decks herself like a ship in full sail,
The ribbons as broad as the green leaves o' kail;
With that and the vail hanging over her e'en,
That there's not a wrinkle at all to be seen.

She curls up her hair like a water-dogs tail,
Roll'd up in paper as round as a snail;
The very first Sunday the vail goes on,
One says to another, what is she, yon? 

Then on Sunday she goes to the church,
But what she hears there she does not mind much 
Neither the text nor the psalm she will mind on,
But she'll mind very well what her neighbours had on.

At balls and meetings she will rant and rove
And every new meeting she'll get a new love:
But with her gallanting ere three years go round,
Her state alters suddently her bonnet goes down.

Syne after they're married away the chield goes,
And leaves the poor creature in sorrow and woes
And away to America then he does trip,
And leaves the poor miss thip shaft to lick.

Then she's confined like a cow to the grass.
And bonnet laid down with the gown, vail, and dress;
The cradle she rocks, while the wean it does roar,
And she greives at the thing that she laughed at before.

White Squall.

Katty Darling

The sea was brigh and the bark rode well,
The breeze bore the tone of the vesper bell,
'Twas a gallant bark with a crew as brave
As ever launched on a heaving mave,
She shone in the light of declining day,
And each sail was set, and each heart was gay

They neared the land where beauty smiles,
The sunny shores of the Greacian isles,
All thought of home and that welcome dear
That soon should great each wanderer's ear,
And in fancy joined the social throng,
And the festive dance and the joyous song.

A white cloud flies through the azure sky,
What means that wild despairing cry,
Farewell the visioned scenes of home!
That cry is "help !" where no help can come;
For the white squall rides on the surging wave
And the barks i gulph'd in an ocean grav

The flowers are blooming Katty Darling,
And the birds are singing on each tree,
Never mind your mother's cruel snarling,
My love you know I'm waiting for thee!
The sun is sweetly smiling,
With his face so clear and bright,
Haste to your lover, Katty Darling,
Ere the morning  will change to  night
Katty Darling,
The flowers are blooming, &c.

Meet mei n the valley, Katty Darling,
When the moon is shining o'er the sea,
Oh, meet me near the stream, Katty Darling,
And tales of love I'll tell unto thee;
When the twinkling stars are peeping,
Sure those eyes shine far more bright,
Oh, meet me in the valley, Katty Darling,
And our vows of love we'll pledge to-night
Katty Darling, &c.Lothian Hairst

  THE BANKS OF INVERURIE  

Lads   that   were   reared  amang  the   Heather

'TWAS IN THE MONTH OF SWEET JULY

Lads that were Reared amang the Heather

Our famed British regiments are faithful and brave,
And never were known to have ears ;
They boldly gang forward their country to save,
When the signal of danger appears.
The Shamrock, the Rose, an' the Thistle combin'd,
Hae men that ne'er showed the white feather ;
But foremost in battle you always will find
The lads that were reared 'mang the heather.

CHORUS—

Then gie three hearty cheers to our braw mountaineers,
The lads wi' the plaid an' the feather;
"We'll conquer or die," is the war-soondin' cry
Of the lads that were reared 'mang the heather.
On Alma's lone height, in the midst of the fight,
Brave Campbell the eagle defied.
There was work to be done, and wreaths to be won,
"Then forward', ye kilties," he cried.
Oor braw Heilent sodgers then speeled up the brae,
And bravely they charged on together ;
The fear trembling foemen were swept doon like hay
By the lads that were reared 'mang the heather.

At Lucknow, ye ken, when the great cry  arose,
That mothers and infants were slain,
Oor kilties gaed forward and conquered their foes,
And peace for the Sepoys did claim.
Nae cauld thochts o' failure their bosoms e'er fill,
But bravely they charged in together,
And firm as the peaks o' their ain native hills,
Are the lade that were reared 'mang the heather.

The Lothian Hairst

On August twall frae Aiberdeen,
We sailed on board the Prince,
And safe arrived on Shawfield shore,
     The harvest to commence.
For sax lang weeks the country roon',
Frae toon tae toon we went,
We took richt weel in Lothian fair,
And aye we're weel content.

Oor gaffer, Willie Mathieson,
Frae sweet Deeside he came.
Oor foreman came frae that same place,
And Logan was his name.
We fallowed Logan on the first,
And sae weel he laid it doon,
And sae nimbly as he led oor squad,
Ower mony a thistly  boon.

He cleared the bothy every nicht,
Before he went to sleep,
And not so much as ane did leave,
But strict his rules did keep.
And when he came to Aiberdeen,
He weel deserved a spree,
For the herding o' us a' sae weel,
For the Lothian lads were free.

Fareweel, M' Kenzie, Reid, and Rose,
And the rest o' the merry crew,
There's Chalmers, Shephard, Logan, Jock,
And the royal Stewart, too.
Come fill the glass and drink it roon' ,
Before oor boat shall start,
And may we safely reach the shors,
And all in friendsheip part.

The Banks of Inverurie.

One day as I was walking, and as I did pass,
On the banks of Inverurie I met a bonnie lass.
Her hair hung o'er her shoulders broad, her eyes like stars
did shine,
On the banks of Inverurie, it's oh ! gin she were mine!

I made up to this fair maid as boldly as I could—
Her hair hung o'er her shoulders broad like threads of beaten
gowd,
And like a blood red cupid's bow was her bewitching mou'—
On the banks of Inverurie I long to walk with you.

She said, young man, give over delnding of me so,
For after kissing cometh wooing, after wooing, woe,
My tender heart you will ensnare, and I'll beguiled be,
On the banks of Inverurie I'll walk alone, said she.

His hunting horn he then did raise, and blew both loud and
shrill,
When six and thirty gentleman came riding o'er the hill.
She said, you're used to courting   maids,   but this day it
       canna be;
On the banks of Inverurie I'll walk alone, said she.
You'll take this pretty fair maid, mount her on horseback high
And we will to a parson's go, and that immediately ;
And I will sing these words with joy, until the day I dee---
Praise Inverurie's lovely hanks where first I did you see.

Twas in  the  Month of
Sweet July.

'Twas in the month of sweet July,
Before the sun had pierced the sky,
'Twas doon between twa rigs o' rye,
I heard twa lovers talking.
He said, my love, I must away—
I have no longer time to stay;
But I've a word or two to say,
If ye hae time to hear them.

My horse sae high ye canna ride,
The waters deep ye canna wide,
The hills sae steep ye canna climb,
Sae lassie I maun leave ye.
Your horse sae high, love, I can ride,
The waters deep, love, I can wide,
The hills sae steep, love, I can climb,
Sae laddie, tak' me wi' ye.

Your father of ye tak'e guid care,
Your mother combs your yellow hair,
Wi' your sisters ye will have nae share,
Gin ye wed wi' me—a stranger.
Let father fret, let mother frown,
My sisters a' may me renown,
For if they were deid and in the groun',
Awa' wr' you I'd wander.

O lassie, laasie, yer fortune's sma',
And maybe it is nane ava,
Ye are nae match for me ava,
So seek some ither lover.
At this the lass looked very ill,
Her rosy cheeks are wan and pale,
The tears cam' trickling doon like hail,
Or a heavy shower in summer.

He's taen a 'kerchief o' silk sae fine,
And dried her cheeks, and kissed her syne,
Says, laasie, my love, ye'll never tine,
I said it a' tae try ye.
This couple they've got married noo,
And bairnies sweet they have a few,
They live in Brighton the winter through,

Copies can always be had at the Poets' Box, Overgate, Dundee.ALABAMA SAM.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
 in the Poet's Box, 

All kinds of Music supplied to order on moderate terms.

TUNE-Original.

I come from Alabama,

My name is Samuel,
The white folks call me Sam,

And that suits me quite as well.
'Most everything I spy

Though I look so jolly green,
To take me in is all my eye,

For you'll find I'm ' all serene."

CHORUS.

Oh, such a genius you never did see,

North, East, South, or West, there's none comes up

to me,

I'm a modern nonpareil, the white folks say I am,
the pride of all creation is Alabama Sam.

I came over to England

My fortune for to make,
By golly it nearly broke their hearts,

The fair ones to forsake.
Among them all I was first chap,

A regular darkey swell,
A taxation nigger I was called

By every yaller belle.

HOW I came to England,

I cross'd the Atlantic waves,
For in North or South there is no home.,

For us poor negro slaves.
John Bull with open heart and hand,

Greets brothers white or black,
So in freedom's land I'll take my stand,

For they'll never get me back.



Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch May be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF THE NEWEST SONGS.

poor little Jim

Bauldie, come hame

Boys that carry the hod

Champagne Charlie

On board the Kangaroo

The sugar shop

German band

Married to a mermaid

Beloved eye

Slap bang

Bridgeton weaver

Hankie Pankie

Lass for a chap that's shy

Tin-Pot Mary

Beautiful Nell

Charming lovely Rose

Broken-hearted shepherd

She'd a black and rolling eye

Miss Molloy

Parkhead weaver

Return o' the Gallowgate lad

special constables

Green parasol

The three fishers

it  wonderful how we do it, 

Two in the morning
Wearing o' the green
Wee Joukeydaidles
Young man dressed in red
Oor woe Kate
Pat and the whale
My bonnie wee wifie and I
Auld Robin the laird
Merry old Uncle Joe
Nanny that leeves nest door
Just before the battle, mother
Susan's Sunday out
Five and twenty shillings a 

week

Sequel to Bauldie, come hame
Sandstone girl
Joe Muggins the farmer
Happy uncle Joe
Dashing Navvigator
Auld Robin the  laird
Village blacksmith
Mocking bird
Father's love
Battling mare and I
Rothesay road
Row upon the stairs

saturday morning, April 16  1870.BILLY PATTISON.

PRICE ONE PENNY

Copies of this very popular song can always to had, at
the Poet's Boy, O St 

Air-Original.                        

Oh, white folks, listen unto me,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
The subject of my story I'll tell unto thee,

Don't tell me, don't tell me,
The name of my story I'll tell unto thee,

Is oh, Billy P'at'tison,
The name of my song I'll tell unto thee,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, goodbye,

I think your horse will die,

If he don't  I'll ride again,

If he does I'll tan his skin,

I'll lay ten dollars down,

And leave it in my will,

show me the man in this yer town.

That struck my brother Bill.

I had a brother his name was Dick,

Oh. Billy Pattison,
Somebody hit him on the head with a brick,

Don't tell me, don't tell me,
Oh, what did he say when he came to ?

Oh, Billy Pattison.
I say, darkies, dis won't do,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, &c.

If ever you go to Fiddler's Green,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
A lame old nigger is there to be seen,                       

Don't tell me, don't tell me,                           ;

In his right hand be holds a will,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
And this is the man that struck old Bill,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, &c.

JUST PUBLISHED, PRICE ONE PENNY,
THE POET'S GRAND CATALOGUE OF SONGS !

Containing 32 pages of closely printed matter.

THIS unique little publication has quite taken  the world by
storm, owing to its vast usefulness to the Lovers of Song
It also contains several rare poetical effusions, written spe-
cially for its pages by a gentleman of high standing in the
literary world. To parties in any part of the three king-
doms it will be transmitted free, per post, on receipt of Two
Postage Stamps. For this trifling sum, an idea of the POET'S
WONDERS  may be obtained at every fire side in these realms

LETTERS and PETITIONS written by the POET on the
shortest notice and most reasonable terms. All parties may
rely with confidence on the strictest secrecy being observed
This, to Lovers, is a great boon.

SONGS, PARODIES, &c., Written on any Subject
Terms-2s. 6d. and upwards.

Saturday Morning, January 10, 1863.DEATH OF Dr. LIVINGSTONE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular production can always
be obtained at the POET'S Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow

.

Tune.—Original.

Since making songs is all the rage I thought I'd try my hand,
And bring before you something new,but you must understand 
It's not about a charming girl, of whom so many authors write,
Nor yet about a howling swell that likes to prowl at night;
It is about a great man who is now dead and gone,
I 'm sure you all know who I mean, the great Dr. Livingstone ;
When he began to push his way he was as poor as you or I ,
So you see what a working lad can do if he only likes to try.

This great man as a piecer boy at first began to work,
And I'm sure he always did his best, and his duty ne'er did shirk
For the lad who does not do his duty well in life he ne'er succeeds,,
For it's not by words that he is judged, but always by his deeds.
Through reading of great travellers' lives he thought he'd like to
roam,
And so he left old Scotia's shore, his own dear native home,
And crossed the wild and stormy waves to Africa's distant land,
To teach unto her dark-skinned sons the Gospel truth so grand.

While there he heard of many tribes who white men ne'er had seen,
Far, far across the burning sands where white men ne'er had been, 
So he risked his life amongst them, their country to explore,
Crossed burning sands and fertile lands to Lake 'Nyassa's shore.
He made many  friends amongst them, and was the friend of all,
And tried to free their country from slavery's cursed thrall ;
He raised his voice against those men who make the negroes slaves, 
And tear them from  their peaceful homes to toil across the  waves,

He was many times reported dead, and often was stricken down,
But great success was known his labour for to crown;
When last he sailed for Africa and left old Scotia's shore,
We did not think at that time we would ne'er see him more
He was again reported dead, and Stanley took the route
He persevered and toiled hard until he found him out •
But he has died on Afric's sands, with none to raise his head
No loving friend to shed a tear or smooth his dying bed.

PRINTING.

Business Cards, Circulars,
Handbills,   Invoica   Tops,
Letter Heads,   Memoranda,
1s per 100.

Concert & Assembly Cards,
Bills, and Posters, of every description, &c., &c.,
at proportionately Low Prices.

Orders, by letter, from the country, will receive
immediate attention, and will be sent off by Rail,
Steamer, 'Bus, or Post, as may be most convenient.   TAPIOCA.

PRICE ONE PENNY.
Copies of this popular song can always be had in the

Poet's Box,

TUNE-ORIGINAL.

When I used to work on the levee,

Many happy darkies there you see;
Cotton coming in so very heavy,

Oh, jolly, there was lots of work for me ;
Black man hauling in the cargo,

Sun am very hot upon the head ;
When he done he dance a jargo,

Rum, tum, on the banjo, and then to bed.

Chorus.

To my oakum, to my chokum,
Oh, Pompey, can't you pick a peck of oakum,
Oh, ah, jolly aint the levee nigger free,
Working on the cotton bout, ten shilling a day,
Johnny, can't you pick upon the banjo-
Oh me, oh my, mammy, mammy, mammy,
Don't you hear the baby cry !

When I used to work off in the river                   

Totin, wood and water all the day,
Chilly wind he came, and make me shiver,

Oh ! glad this child was to get away ;
White man he gave me silver dollar,

Every day I work upon the dock,
Then I get some water and I holler,

Blim'e, blom'e, Cot-er-re-go rock.

Make him feel like an alligator,

When him just about to catch a mice,

Dis child is fond of fried potatoes,

Cat-fish and coffee is so nice.
  When the bell he rings I go to dinner,
Den I goes and sees my Dinah dear,

I'll marry her as sure as I'm a sinner,

And love her all the days that's in the year.



Letters and Petitions written by the Poet on the most
moderate terms.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

The engine-driver

I'll tell your wife

My rattling mare and I

Send back my Barney to me

Merry old Uncle Joe

I cannot sing the old songs

Poor old Mike

Stirrup cup

Oak and the ivy

Lone starry hours

Health to the outward-bound

The happy family

Blue-eyed Nelly

Charming little Sal

Pride of Pimlico

Dancing swell

Conquering boys of Donegal


O, for the bloom of my own

native heather
Love's request
The desert
The gambler's wife
Jessie at the railway bar
Up  with   the   lark  in the

morning
My old wife
Teddy O'Neil
The old sexton
Bonnie boy in blue
She danced like a fairy
Mother, I've come home

die

All among the barley
Father, come home

Saturday, June 4, 1870.
The Flight of Ages

SING   AGAIN   THAT   SWEET   REFRAIN
Those   Wedding   Bells  shall   not   Ring   Out
JUST   AS   THE   SUN   WENT   DOWN

Those Wedding Bells shall not Ring Out.

A sexton stood one Sabbath eve within a belfry grand,
Awaiting signal from the church with bell-rope in his hand,
As in the house of worship stood a young and happy pair,
To pledge their troth for evermore each other's love to share.
The holy  man then  spake these words—"Before you're joined
for life,
Has any person aught to say 'gainst you as man, and wife?"
Then down the aisle there came a man with quick and eager
tread,
And pointing to the trembling bride these words he calmly said



                                           CHORUS



"Those wedding bells must not ring out, she is another's bride
I saw her at the alter rail, we stood there side by side,
She cannot claim another's hand—she dare not break the
law's command,
A guilty wife you see her stand! Those bells shall not ring
out!"
The minister was speechless and the bridegroom stood amazed,
The congregation spell-bound sat, and thought the man was
crazed.
The bride had not a word to say, but simply hung her head.
"Who is this man?" the preacher asked, "I know him not,"
she said.
"Then ring the bells," the bridegroom cried, the man knealt
to entreat,
The sexton swung the chimes, aloft the bells rang clear and

sweet.
But scarce their music had begun when forth there came a

shout,

"Stand back! I say, they shall not ring, those bells shall not
ring out."

CHORUS—

"Those wedding bells shall not ring out, I swear it on my life,
For we were wedded years ago—and she is still my wife!
She shall not break her vows to me—she's mine through all
eternity,
She's mine till death shall set her free—those bells shall not

ring out ."

A shriek of woe, a glit'ring blade, a lurch, a flash, a dart-—
   And, like the lightning's stroke the blade had reached her

trembling heart,
"You' ve killed his bride, Oh God !" they cried! He swung the

gleaming knife,    
And pierced his own heart as he gasped, nay, not the bride,

my  wife.

Two forms lay cold within the aisle, the husband and the bride
As once in life he claimed they stood in wedlock side by side.
His vow was kept, the bells had ceased, and with his dying

breath,

These words once more he murmured ere his lips were closed
in death—

The Flight of Ages

I heard a song, a tender song,

'Twas sung for me alone,
In the hush of a golden twilight,

When all the world was gone ;
And as long as my heart is beating,

As long as my eyes have tears,
I shall hear the echces ringing

From out the golden years.
I have a rose, a white, white rose.

'Twas given me long ago,

When the song had fallen to silence,
And the stars were dim and low ;

It lies in an old book faded,
Between the pages white,

But the ages cannot dim the dream
It brought to me that night.

I have a love, the love of years,

Bright as the purest star,
As radiant, sweet, and wonderful,

As hopeless and as far;
I have a love, the love of years,

It's light alone I see,
And I must worship hope and love,

However far it be.

It is the love that speaks to me

Is that sweet song of old,
It is, the dream of golden years,

Those petals white unfold:
And every star may fall from heaven,

And every  rose decay,
But the ages cannot change my  love

Or take my dream- or take my dream away.

Copies can always be  had at 'the Poets' Box,

Sing again that Sweet Refrain.

A music hall was crowded in a city o'er the sea,

Brilliant lights were flashing everywhere,
Songs and witty sayings filled the audience with glee,

For the minster from the sunny South was there.
The minstrel sang a song about his old plantation home,

Upon the Swanee River, far away,
When the aged darkie who had sat in silence and in gloom,

Arose, and this is what they heard him say—

"Oh sing again that sweet refrain—dat's what de ole folks say
It brings me back to slavery days, befo' I was called away.
Upon de Swanee Ribber's  banks—dat's whar I used ter roam,
Now I'se ole and grey and far away from de ole folks at home!

The minstrel sang the song again; his eyes grew bright with
tears;

The aged darky sat with head bowed low ;
And something in his heart awoke, had slumbered there for
years—

'Twas the memory of a mother, long ago!
The hall resounded with applause, and as the curtain fell,

The aged darkie tottered on his way ;
He was thinking of the minstrel and the song he sung so well,

And the words that made him rise and say :—

Oh, sing again that sweet refrain, &c.

Just as the Sun went Down

after the din of the battle's roar,

Just at the close of day,
Wounded and bleeding lay upon the field,

Two dying soldiers lay.
One held a ringlet of thin grey hair,

One held a lock of brown,
Bidding each other a last farewell,

Just as the sun went down.

CHORUS—
One thought of mother at home, alone,

Feeble, old, and grey,
One of the sweetheart he'd left in town,

Happy, young, and gay.

One kissed the ringlet of thin grey hair,

One kissed the lock of brown,
Bidding farewell to the dear old flag,

Just as the sun went down.

One knew the joy of a mother's love,

One of a sweetheart fair,
Thinking of home, they  lay side by side,

Breathing a farewell prayer,
One for his mother so old and grey,

One for his love in town.
They closed their eyes to the earth and skies,

Just as the sun went down.



Then came the news from a comrade's lips.

One who'd survived the fight,
Two hearts nigh  broken—two noble lives lost,

Fighting—defending the Crown-
Still, they were proud of the heroes who died.

Just as the sun went down.



 Overgate Dundee.A N E W  S O N G

TO AN OLD TUNE.

TUNE--" UP, AN' WAUR THEM A', WILLIE."

CTORIA' S doun to Embro' toun,
The Queen o' the North to see,
And a' are join'd in heart and mind
To welcome her wi' glee ;
But our Duke, and Peel, that sleeky chiel,
The management hae ta'en,
And honest Leith—in spite her teeth—
She's slighted been again.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
An' cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
Afore that waur befa'.

At Granton Pier they've landed her,
Wi' little show o' state,
And ne'er a word sent to my Lord,
To meet her at the gate.
And they drove past in furious haste;
(Gudesake ! what did they mean ?)
As if they'd haen rinnin' after them
Oxford, Francis, and Bean,
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up an' rin awa'.
Ne'er cock your tail, your sliding-scale
Has done nae good at a'.

Our Provost and our Magistrates
Are a' leal men and true,
(A great deal mair—na, never stare—
Than can be said o' you, )—
To receive the Queen—as you had seen,
They spared nae pains at a',—
But your fairin' yet, Robin, ye'll get,
Auld Nick your back will claw.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an rin awa',
For if the Chartists seize your corpus,
They'll skin ye like a craw.

There's mony an honest Scottish heart,
That beats fu' high, I ween,—-
Wha's now gane hame—and a' the blame's
Thrown on our bonny Queen.
From far an' near, they came to share
In that auspicious hour ;
But had ye your will, great Bobby Peel,
We'd hae neither sun nor shower.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Your Income-Tax will rug an' rax,
But good do nane ava'.

For centuries three nae Queen but she
Has graced auld Scotia's shore,
And such a face may never grace
Edina's bowers more.
But may shame light upon the wight—
May his rope be na to weave—

Wha advised the Queen to slight our toun,
For a Chief o' Border Thieves.
Up, an" rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Your Tariff-bill our wames to fill,
Will never do at a'.

But that advice was in a trice
Toss'd to the wind awa',
When Victoria heard that she'd been led
By the nose to Dalkeith ha'.
Auld Reekie rang—the guns did bang—
The cheers did deafening flee,—
O, never fear—the fient a cheer
Was meant to welcome thee, Robie.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
For if ye gae ower near Airdrie,
Ye'll ne'er get hame at a'.

There were groans for you,—Cheap Whisky, too,
Cam' in for a good few,
Sure sic a pair did never share—
But the Deil maun get his due.
Our spoony Duke—we aye mistook
Him for a silly fool,—
But this affair has laid him bare—
He's just your sumphish tool, Robie.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Gae slaik your drouth wi' bold Buccleugh,
He's Whisky cheap and braw.

Mak' haste, gae hame and hide your shame
In Tamworth's dowie walls,
And never more need you appear
In Scotia's honour'd halls.
Sae, fare-ye-weel, Sir Robie Peel—
The best wish we've to spare
Is, bide at hame, an' fill your wame,
An' never fash us mair.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Gae cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
Afore that waur befa'.

" God save the Queen," auld Scotia sing,
Till voice and vigour fails,
" Prince Habby, and the bonny baby,
And the Prince o' Wales."
O, bide a wee, our land to see,
The land o' Bruce, an' a',
The land o' song, from whence you've sprung,       
O, dinna haste awa'.                                    
Dinna haste awa', lassie,              
Dinna rin awa',                       
But bide a wee, our land to see,               
O, dinna rin awa'.                         

PRICE ONE PENNY.A  N E W  SONG

TO AN OLD TUNE.

TUNE—" UP, AN' WAUR THEM A', WILLIE."

CTORIA'S doun to Embro' toun,
The Queen o' the North to see,
And a' are join'd in heart and mind
To welcome her wi' glee ;
But our Duke, and Peel, that sleeky chiel,
The management hae ta'en,
And honest Leith—in spite her teeth—
She's slighted been again.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
An' cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
Afore that waur befa'.

At Granton Pier they've landed her,
Wi' little show o' state,
And ne'er a word sent to my Lord,
To meet her at the gate.
And they drove past in furious haste;
(Gudesake! what did they mean ?)
As if they'd haen rinnin' after them
Oxford, Francis, and Bean.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up an' rin awa'.
Ne'er cock your tail, your sliding-scale
Has done nae good at a'.

Our Provost and our Magistrates
Are a' leal men and true,
( A great deal mair—na, never stare—
Than can be said o' you, )-—
To receive the Queen—as you had seen,
They spared nae pains at a',—
But your fairin' yet, Robin, ye'll get,
Auld Nick your back will claw.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an rin awa',
For if the Chartists seize your corpus,
They'll skin ye like a craw.

There's mony an honest Scottish heart,
That beats fu' high, I ween,—
Wha's now gane hame—and a' the blame's
Thrown on our bonny Queen.
From far an' near, they came to share
In that auspicious hour ;
But had ye your will, great Bobby Peel,
We'd hae neither sun nor shower.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Your Income-Tax will rug an' rax,
But good do nane ava'.

For centuries three nae Queen but she
Has graced auld Scotia's shore,
And such a face may never grace
Edina's bowers more.
But may shame light upon the wight—
May his rope be na to weave—

Wha advised the Queen to slight our toun,
For a Chief o' Border Thieves
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Your Tariff-bill our wames to fill,
Will never do at a'.

But that advice was in a trice
Toss'd to the wind a Na',
When Victoria heard that she'd been led
By the nose to Dalkeith ha'.
Auld Reekie rang—the guns did bang—
The cheers did deafening flee,—
O, never fear—the fient a cheer
Was meant to welcome thee, Robie,
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
For if ye gae ower near Airdrie,
Ye' ll ne'er get hame at a'.

There were groans for you,—Cheap Whisky, too
Cam' in for a good few,
Sure sic a pair did never share—
But the Deil maun get his due.
Our spoony Duke—we aye mistook
Him for a silly fool,—
But this affair has laid him bare—
He's just your sumphish tool, Robie.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Gae slaik your drouth wi' bold Buccleugh,
He's Whisky cheap and braw.

Mak' haste, gae hame and hide your shame
In Tamworth's dowie walls,
And never more need you appear
In Scotia's honour'd halls.
Sae, fare-ye-weel, Sir Robie Peel—
The best wish we've to spare
Is, bide at hame, an' fill your wame,
An' never fash us mair.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Gae cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
A fore that waur befa'.

" God save the Queen," auld Scotia sing,
Till voice and vigour fails,
" Prince Habby, and the bonny baby,
And the Prince o' Wales."
O, bide a wee, our land to see,
The land o' Bruce, an' a',
The land o' song, from whence you've sprung,
O, dinna haste awa'.
Dinna haste awa', lassie,
Dinna rin awa',
But bide a wee, our land to see,
O, dinna sin awa'.     

PRICK ONE PENNY.A NEW SONG
TO AN OLD TUNE.

TUNE—" UP, AN' WAUR THEM A', WILLIE."

VICTORIA'S doun to Embro' toun,
Tho Queen o' the North to see,
And a' are join'd in heart and mind
To welcome her wi' glee;
But our Duke, and Peel, that sleeky chiel,
The management hae ta'en,
And honest Leith—in spite her teeth—
She's slighted been again.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
An' cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
Afore that waur befa'.

At Granton Pier they've landed her,
Wi' little show o' state,
And ne'er a word sent to the Lord,
To meet her at the gate.
And they drove past in furious haste;
(Gudesake ! what did they mean ?)
As if they'd haen rinnin' after them
Oxford, Francis, and Bean.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Ne'er cock your tail, your sliding-scale
Has done nae good at a'.

Our Provost and our Magistrates
Are a' leal men and true,
(A great deal mair—na, never stare—
Than can be said o' you,)—
To receive the Queen—as you had seen,
They spared nae pains at a',—
But your fairin' yet, Robin, ye'll get,
Auld Nick your back will claw.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an rin awa',
For if the Chartists seize your corpus,
The'll skin ye like a craw.

There's mony an honest Scottish heart,
That beats fu' high, I ween,—
Wha's now gane hame—and a' the blame's
Thrown on our bonny Queen.
From far an' near, they came to share
In that auspicious hour;
But had ye your will, great Bobby Peel,
We'd hae neither sun nor shower.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Your Income-Tax will rug an' rax,
But good do nane ava'.

For centuries three nae Queen but she
Has graced auld Scotia's shore,
And such a face may never grace
Edina's bowers more.
But may shame light upon the wight—
May his rope be na to weave—
Wha advised the Queen to slight our toun,
For a Chief o' Border Thieves.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Your Tariff-bill our wames to fill,
Will never do at a'.

But that advice was in a trice             
Toss'd to the wind awa',
When Victoria heard that she'd been led
By the nose to Dalkeith ha'.
Auld Reekie rang—the guns did bang—
The cheers did deafening flee,—
O, never fear—the fient a cheer
Was meant to welcome thee, Robie.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
For if ye gae ower near Airdrie,
Ye'll ne'er get hame at a'.

There were groans for you,—Cheap Whisky, too,
Cam' in for a good few,
Sure sic a pair did never share—
But the Deil maun get his due.
Our spoony Duke—we aye mistook
Him for a silly foel,—
But this afair has laid him bare—
He's just your sumphish tool, Robie.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa'.
Gae slaik your drouth wi' bold Buccleugh,
He's Whisky cheap and braw.

Mak' haste, gae hame and hide your shame
In Tamworth's dowie walls,
And never more need you appear
In Scotia's honour'd halls.
Sae, fare-ye-weel, Sir Robie Peel—
The best wish we've to spare
Is, bide at hame, an' fill your wame,
An' never fash us mair.
Up, an' rin awa', Robie,
Up, an' rin awa',
Gae cross the Tweed wi' a' your speed,
Afore that waur befa'.

" God save the Queen," auld Scotia sing,
Till voice and vigour fails,
" Prince Habby, and the bonny baby,
And the Prince o' Wales."
O, bide a wee, our land to see,
The land o' Bruce, an' a',
The land o' song, from whence you've sprung,
O, dinna haste awa'.
Dinna haste awa', lassie,
Dinna rin awa',
But bide a wee, our land to see,
O, dinna rin awa'.

PRICE ONE PENNY.SONG.

DAINTY GEORDIE.

Tune—" Dainty Davie"

Now here we're met to tak our glass,
And a' our party-jars suppress,
An' wi' ae mouth a' to confess
That we like dainty Geordie.

CHORUS.
Then for his sake we'll tak a gill,
An' to the lip our glasses fill :
We'll lilt them  aff wi' right guid will,
An' drink long life to Geordie.

For under him we sit and crack,
In peace and unity compact,
Whilst every nation's on the rack.
That disna like our Geordie.

These fifty years he's steer'd the helm,
A time, nae doubt, o' great alarm,
But here we're a' wi' little harm,
Our pilot dainty Geordie.

Some kings ha'e tumbl'd heels o'er head,
Now ithers reigning in their stead;
An' mony ane o' them are dead,
Since we crown'd dainty Geordie.

There's Bonaparte o'er the sea,
A little restless busy bee,
He'll weary out himsel an' die,
Perhaps before our Geordie.

For mony a king has he seen out,
And empires whirl'd round about,
But he himsel  is yet fu' stout,
Our ain auld dainty Geordie.

O' wad they sheathe the bluidy knife,
An' nations bury a' their strife,
An' no thirst sae for ithers- life,
Perhaps it is nae Geordie.

But I'll no speak about the war,
Lest that should breed an unco jar:
We cam nae here to ha'e a spar,
But just sing "Dainty  Geordie."Jemmie Forrest.

Tune—Johnny Cope.

Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet ?
Or are your Bailies snoring yet ?
If ye were waukin' I would wait,
Ye'd hae a merry, merry morning.

The frigate guns they loud did roar,
But louder did the Bailies snore,
And thought it was an unco bore
To rise up in the morning.

And syne the Castle thunder'd loud ;
But kipper it is savoury food,
And that the Bailies understood,
Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Granton Pier,
Nae Provost and nae Bailies here ?
They're in their beds, I muckle fear,
Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Brandon Street,
The Provost and the Keys to meet,
And div ye think that she's to wait
Your waukin' in the morning.

My Lord, my Lord, the Queen she's here,
And vow, my Lord he lookit queer—
And what sets her sae soon asteer ?
Its barely nine in the morning.

Gae bring to me my robes o' state ;
Come, Bailies, we will catch her yet.
Rin, rin, my Lord, ye'll be o'er late,
She's been through the town this morning.

Awa' to Dalkeith ye maun hie,                          
To make your best apologie.                    
The Queen, she'll say, O fie ! O flie ! 
Ye're lazy loons in the morning.        The birth of Young Ned.

It was on the ninth of november,
Eighteen hundred and forty-one,
Our beautiful Queen you',l remembar,
Did behold her first-born son.
All the young ladies of honour,
As they did approach near her bed,
Did praise the great bountiful Donor,
That rais'd up a prince called Ned.

When the news did spread through the City,
That a prince of Wales he was born;
The sight it was wondrous pretty,
There was great rejoicing that morn.
The guns they did fire on the Tower,
Enough to awaken the dead,
The bells they began that same hour
To proclaim the birth of young Ned.

The ladies admir'd the child's beauty.
They said 'twas a sweet love y boy.
They said Albert he had done his duty,
They wished him a great deal of joy;
They said since he crossed o'er the water.
He has been but twenty months wed
Now he's got a blooming yo ing daughter.
And a bonnie son called Ned.

Prince Albert he says my young daughter
Is twelve months old all but one day,
She was baptiz'd jordan's water,
Ned must be baptiz'd the same way.
For the Christening come let us make ready,
Off the nation all will be paid
We'll choose sponsors firm and steady,
To stan ! for our bonny son Ned

The Queen then she smi ing rep ied.
Edward it was my father's name.
I was but a child when he died,
I'm now rais'd to honour and fame.
I'm placed in a high  situation.
And you for your beauty I wed,
Let it now be proclam'd through he \ill\,
We ve got a young son ca led Ned

Fourteen thousand a-year off the nation.
The young prince of Wales will receive,
'Twould keep 14,000 from starvation,
That now some assistance do crave.
By the time they have twenty more,
And all off the nation are paid.
It's taxing they'll never give o'er,
If they all come as  quick as  young  Ned.

Fourteen thousand a year for a bairn,
It is quite too much the fo k  say,
Number would be glad they could earn,
These dull times, a shilling a day ;
There is throuhgout the nation.
That's ruined for the want of trade.
Some thousands are kept in starvation,
Supporting the friends  of  young  Ned.

John russell he said to Melbourne,
It's you and I will miss this feast,
'Twas once of it we had our turn,
But none of it now we will taste
Now Sir Robert Peel and his party,
At this time they will be well fed,
It's they will all eat and drink hearty,
At she christening of young  Ned.The Provost's Nap.

Tune—" Up in the mornin' early."

" Up in the mornin's no for me—
Up in the mornin' early.
The Bailies and I could never agree
To rise in the morning early."

Bright shines the sun frae east to west,
The breeze is blawing rarely—
The royal squadron's at the Pier—
The Queen is landed fairly.

The Castle guns roar unco loud,
And coaches drive tu' sairly ;
And loudly rings the bells for me—
What can they mean sae early ?

The chimney-taps are clad wi' crowds—
The Archers muster fairly—
The balconies begin to fill—
Yet sure it's rather early !

It's braw to tend on Majesty,
And princes deck'd sae rarely.
But what's thae pleasures to a nap ?—
It beats them hollow fairly.

" What means that thund' rin' at the door ?
They'll break the pannels surely.
I'll ha'e them laid in ward. I will,
And that too, most securely !"

Up flew the Provost's bed-room door,
Which fill'd wi' spectres sparely.
" O Provost ! Provost ! dree the day
Ye miss'd our Queen sae fairly !'

The Provost dous't his coul, and cried—
" What ! has she pass'd the Barrier ?
" O ! yes, my Lord, the High School too—
She could nae langer tarry her."

The Provost sabb'd, and sigh'd, and moan'd—
" O ! had I just been near her—
I'll greet, and grunt, and groan, and die—
Neglect shall ne'er pay dearer."The Queen's Visit to Scotland.

The Queen is coming here they say,
To Scotland coming down ;
Prince Albert will be with her too,
We shall see them soon.

For they are sailing north about,
They're all sailing down,
To see the Palace Holy Rood,
And Edinburgh Town.

She is sailing in her Royal Yacht,
Shining like a star ;
Guns and carriages gilt with gold,
You can see them from afar.

Two mighty ships her convoy is,
Two British men-of-war,
With sailors and marines on board,
None hurt her now would dare.

This Prince he sees such novelty
By him before ne'er seen ;
Happy this day, he now doth say,
To be with the British Queen.

And when at Granton Pier she lands,
The Archers will be seen
With Quivers, Arrows, and their Bows,
Gaily deck'd to guard their Queen.

Lords and Ladies there will be
At Granton to be seen ;
And such a shining company -
All there to meet the Queen.

Now give her such reception
As she, indeed, deserves 
Let no one be seen to wear a frown,
As she all our rights preserves.

The chief commander then will join
With part of the Scotch Grays,
Who boldly will lead on the van,
From confusion keep the ways.

And when she to the city comes,
The Provost will be there,
To present her with the city keys,
And his loyalty declare.

And when the Queen doth come here,
We hope she'll stay a while,
Kick up some spirit in our trade,
Which soon will make us smile.The Queen's Welcome to Scotland.
BY ANDREW PARK.

The Queen she is coming, hurra ! hurra !
To the land of the Thistle, hurra ! hurra !
From mountain and glen
Come ye brave Highlandmen,
And welcome your Queen ane an' a', an' a'.
She has left her gay halls
Where the Thames brightly falls
'Mid structures of fame to the sea, the sea,
Where commerce and arts,
With the noblest of hearts,
Sway the home of the brave and the free, the free.
She comes to the heath and the hills, the hills,
To the region of high-gushing rills, the rills,
Where Nature's rude throne
Is more grand then her own,
And loyalty every heart fills, heart fills !
EDINA shall smile
Without effort or guile
The Athens of Britain so grand, so grand,
While Holyrood gay                               
Shall be first in display,
To welcome the Queen of our land, our land.
Bucleugh and Breadalbane, wi' joy, wi' joy,
Shall summon their clans, man an' boy, an' boy.
The Pibroch shall sound
And the hills echo round,
As they march out, their Queen to convoy, to convoy.
Though Scotia be cold,
Yet her sons they are bold ;
She has wisdom and warm hearts an' a', an' a' ;
Wherever man strays
There are songs to her praise,
Heard sung on sweet plains far awa', awa'!
Then on wi' the tartan sae braw, sae braw,
The skian-duth, sporan, an' a', an' a',
Your bonnet and plaid,
And bright dirk by your side,
And fast frae the hills come awa', awa'.
Each ancient claymore,
Which your fathers of yore
Were proud of, come on wi' them a', them a' ;
Your kilt and your hose,
Such as seen by your foes,
When Wallace and Bruce laid them low, them low.
The Queen to our country is true, is true ;
She's young and she's lovely to view, to view !
And virtue, we find
Is the charm of her mind,
While her bounty is every day new, is new.
I've seen her blue eyes,
As she gazed on the skies,
With rapture and beauty to roll, to roll ;
So the hills of the North,
From the Tay to the Forth,
Will add a new charm to her soul, her soul!
No base.hearted traitor is here, is here ;—
No one to afflict thee with fear, with fear ;
The feeling that reigns
O'er our mountains and plains,
Is thy love to preserve, which is dear, is dear !
Then, long live the Queen,
Be she loved as she's been ;                  
Here's to Albert, their offspring an' a', an' a'
From mountain and glen               
Come ye brave Highlandmen !        
The Queen she is coming, hurra ! hurra ! 

The Life and History
OF                        
ROBERT the RAVEN.

Peers, Gentlemen, give Audience,
To Fable ta 'en from Common Sense.

The British Birds of late call'd over,
A Grand Fowl bred up at H---r,
Exalted him to great Renown,
Deck'd with a rich Imperial Crown';             
He swore he would maintain their Cause,
Religion, Liberties and Laws.
This Eagle then he did create
Rob Raven Minister of State.
Full twenty Years Rob rul'd the Roast,
Enhanc'd, dispos'd each gainful Post.
Misled the Council of the Nation,
Invented many a new Taxation,
Advanc'd, degraded at his Pleasure,
Plunder'd the publick Stock and Treasure.
Corrupting ministerial Tools,
Made Havock of the Nation's Spoils.
His blund'ring Treaties did advance             
The Pow'r and Trade of Rival France.
Our Pow'r, Wealth, Trade did quite decay,
To Spanish Vultures made a Prey.                                  
No more the French Cock stood in Aw,                          
O'er the Young Eagle he did craw.
Her Int'rest Rob did quite betray
To many rav'ning Birds of  Prey,
Who pluck'd her Wings, and held her down,
Despoil'd of her Imperial Crown.
True British Birds did long lament,
Made many a heavy loud Complaint;
Our Nation brought to great disgrace,
At last Rob yielded up his place. 
Of all our Product, Trade, and Toil,
This Raven wears the golden Spoil;
He's black and fat, immensely rich,                               
And still the Eagle doth bewitch;
Tho' he be rav'nous, most unclean,
He lurks and rules behind the Screen.

That Grievances may be redress'd,
Peers, chuse a Hawk of a good Nest,	
Of Birth, and Worth, and Metal Keen,
To drive Rob from behind the Screen;                        
Even such a Nest, as is most clean,                                  
Dalkeith, Redbraes or Aberdeen.                                                               THE    RIOT;        

OR,

HALF A LOAF IS BETTER THAN NO BREAD.

IN A DIALOGUE BETWEEN

JACK ANVIL AND TOM HOD.

To the Tune of " A Cobler there was," &c.

TOM.                         

COME, neighbours, no longer be patient and quiet    
Come let us go kick up a bit of a riot;                
I am hungry, my lads, but I've little to eat,                
So we'll pull down the mills, and seize all the meat :     
I'll give you good sport, boys, as ever you saw,               
So a fig for the Justice, a fig for the law.                      
				Derry down.   

Then his pitchfork Tom seiz'd-hold a moment says   
Jack,                                                              
I'll shew thee thy blunder, brave boy, in a crack.          
And if I don't prove we had better be still,                  
I'll assist thee straitway to pull down every mill;           
I'll shew thee how passion thy reason does cheat,           
Or I'll join thee in plunder for bread and for meat.        
				Derry down.   

What a whimsey to think thus our bellies to fill,           
For we stop all the grinding by breaking the mill ?        
What a whimsey to think we shall get more to eat         
By abusing the butchers who get us the meat!              
What a whimsey to think we shall mend our spare diet   
By breeding disturbance, by murder and riot!              
				Derry down.   

Because I am dry, 'twould be foolish, I think                
To pull out my tap and to spill all my drink ;              
Because I am hungry and want to be fed,                    
That is sure no wise reason for wasting my bread ;        
And just such wise reasons for mending their diet          
Are us'd by those blockheads who rush into riot.           
				Derry down.   

I would not take comfort from others distresses,            
But still I would mark how God our land blesses;        
For tho' in Old England the times are but sad,            
Abroad I am told they are ten times as bad ;                
In the land of the Pope there is scarce any grain,         
And 'tis still worse, they say, both in Holland and   
Spain.                                                             
				Derry down.   

Let us look to the harvest our wants to beguile,            
See the lands with rich crops how they every where   
smile!                                                             
Mean time to assist us, by each Western breeze,             
Some corn is brought daily across the salt seas,             
We'll drink little tea, no whisky at all,                        
But patiently wait, and the prices will fall.                   
				Derry down.   

But if we're not quiet, then let us not wonder              
If things grow much worse by our riot and plunder ;     
And let us remember, whenever we meet,                    
The more ale we drink, boys, the less we shall eat.         
On those days spent in riot, no bread you brought home,   
Had  you spent  them in labour you must have had
some.   
				Derry down.   

A dinner of herbs, says the wise man, with quiet
Is better than beef amid discord and riot.
If the thing can't be help'd, I'm a foe to all strife,
And pray for a peace every night of my life ;
But in matters of state not an inch will I budge,
Because I conceive I'm no very good judge.
				Derry down.

But tho' poor, I can work, my brave boys, with the
best,
Let the King and the Parliament manage the rest ;
I lament both the War and the Taxes together,
Tho' I verily think they don't alter the weather.
The King, as I take it with very good reason,
May prevent a bad law, but can't help a bad season.
				Derry down.

The Parliament-men, altho' great is their power,
Yet they cannot contrive us a bit of a shower ;
And I never yet heard, tho' our Rulers are wise;
That they know very well how to manage the skies ;
For the best of them all, as they found to their cost,
Were not able to hinder last Winter's hard frost.
				Derry down.

Besides, I must share in the wants of the times,
Because I have had my full share in it's crimes; 
And I'm apt to believe the distress which is sent,
Is to punish and cure us of all discontent.
-But harvest is coming-Potatoes will come!
Our prospect clears up; Ye complainers be dumb!
				Derry down.

And tho' I've no money, and tho' I've no lands,
I've a head  on my shoulders, and a pair of good
hands;
So I'll work the whole day, and on Sundays I'll seek
At church how to bear all the wants of the week.
The Gentlefolks too will afford us supplies;
They'll subscribe-and they'll give up their puddings
and pies.
				Derry down.

Then before I'm induced to take part in a Riot,
I'll ask this short question-What shall I get by it ?
So I'll e'en wait a little till cheaper the bread,
For a mittimus hangs o'er each Rioters head ;
And when of two evils I'm ask'd which is best,
I'd rather be hungry than be hang'd, I protest.
				Derry down.
                     
Quoth Tom, thou art right; If I rise, I'm a Turk,
So he threw down his pitchfork, and went to his work.
                                                                                                                            Z.
                                               
Perth, Printed by R. Morison.A   BROKEN                                 DOWN

SAINT I SHALL BE.

AIR:— WHAT CAN THE MATTER BE.

I'm a man so religions & yet full of trouble,
This world I'm afraid is all squeak and bubble,
In trying to part the wheat from the stubble,
What a row they kick up to be sure,
The Salvation army now I delight in,
For the coin of the realm I always am fighting,
I love the poke bonnets when others are slighting,
And bright eyes my heart will secure.

Chorus:—

Then   oh, me   this   is   a   supriser,
Of the salation army I've been the adviser,
I suppose i'ts all on account of Eliza,
I'm settled and done for I'm sure.

They say I had some-thing to do with abduction,
That to the girls parents I was an obstruction,
And now in the Court they make such a ruction,
They are making it hot for us all,
I'm ns deaf as a post but I cannot help seeing;
That people in England now are agreeing,
The salvation army a queer lot of beings,
I'm afraid we shall go to the wall.

They say that I was knee deep in the matter,
And in the street my clothes they did batter,
They did'it even ask me who was my hatter,
But knock it right over my eyes,
They would'nt listen unto my story,

They said I was worse than a whig or a tory,
A lot of black mud was my crown of glory,
A salvation saint in disguise,

The worst of the job will be in the pocket,
The flats they will round there's nothing to atop it,
When it comes to that its quite time to pop it,
Aud keep what we can in our hands,
They gave us their money we give then  salvaiton,
To buy their own togs was our admiration,
And drove men crack'd for the next generation,
With our flags and our poo poo bands.

They say that the girl was kept from her mother,
And we dodged her about from one place to tother,
And sent her to sleep with something or other,
In a place where she had no right to be,
They say 'twas a house not quite a chapel,
Not where Adam & Eve stole the apple,
But a more likely place to kick up a rattle,
Where the saint and the sinners are free.

Supposing they send them picking of onknm,
And dry bread and skilly very bad cocum,
If they are guilty I hope it will choke um'
Halleluiah I'm sure they wont cry,
For the cat will be let out of the bag now,
Old salvation tabbies are beginning moll row.
With faces as long as the side of a bay now
And a crockadile tear in each eye.ST.  PETER AT THE GATE.

St. Peter stood guard at the golden gate,
With a solemn mien and an air sedate,
When up to the top of the golden stair
A man and a woman ascending there
Applied for admission.    They came and stood
Before St. Peter, so great and good,
In hope the City of Peace to win,
And asked St. Peter to let them in.

The woman was tall, and lank, and thin,
With a scraggy beardlet about her chin ;
The man was short, and thick, and stout,
His stomach was built so it rounded out,
His face was pleasant, and all the while
He wore a kind and genial smile.
The choirs in the distance the echoes woke,
And the man kept still while the woman spoke.

" Oh, thou who guards the gate," said she,
'' We two come hither beseeching thee
To let us enter the heavenly land
And play our harps with the angel band.
Of me, St. Peter, there is no doubt,
There's nothing in heaven to bar me out,
I've been to meetings three times a week,
And almost always I'd rise and speak.

" I've told the sinners about the day
When they'd repent of their evil way ;
I've told my neighbours—I've told them all
'Bout Adam and Eve and the primal fall;
I've shown them what they'd have to do
If they'd pass in with the chosen few ;
I've marked their path of duty clear—
Laid out the plan for their whole career.

" I've talked and talked to 'em loud and long,
For my lungs are good and my voice is strong ;
So, good St. Peter, you'll clearly see
That the gate of heaven is open for me ;
But my old man, I regret to say,
Hasn't walked in exactly the narrow way,
He smokes and he swears, and grave faults he's
got,
So I don't know whether he'll pass or not.

" He never would pray with an earnest vim,
Or go to revival, or join in a hymn ;
So I had to leave him in sorrow there
While I with the chosen united in prayer.
He ate what the pantry chose to afford,
While I in my purity sang to the Lord ;
And if cucumbers were all he got,
It's a chance if he merited them or not.

" But, oh, St. Peter, I love him so,
To the pleasure of heaven please let him go !
I've done enough, a saint I've been,
Won't that atone ?   Can't you let him in ?
By my grim gospel I know 'tis so
That the unrepentants must fry below ;
But ain't there some way that you can see
That he may enter who's dear to me P
It's a narrow gospel by which I pray;
But the chosen expect to find some way
Of coaxing, or fooling, or bribing you,
So that their relations may amble through.

"And say, St. Peter, it seems to me,
This gate isn't kept as it ought to be.
You ought to stand right by the opening there,
And never sit down in an easy chair.
And say, St. Peter, my sight is dimmed.
But  I  don't  like  the   way your   whiskers  are
trimmed,
They're cut too wide, and outward toss ;
They'd look better narrow, cut straight across,
Well, we must be going our crowns to win,
So open, St. Peter, and we'll pass in."

St. Peter sat quiet and stroked his staff,
But in spite of his office he had to laugh,
Then said with a fiery gleam in his eye :
" Who's tending this gateway—you or I ?"
And then he rose in his stature tall,
And pressed a button upon the wall,
And said to an imp who came up aglow,
" Escort this woman to the regions below."

The man stood still as a piece of stone—
Stood sadly, gloomily, there alone.
A life-long settled idea he had,
That his wife was good and he was bad,
He thought if the woman went down below
That he would certainly have to go ;
That if she went down to regions dim,
There wasn't the ghost of a show for him.
Slowly he turned, by habit bent,
To follow wherever the woman went.
St. Peter, standing on duty there,
Observed that the top of his head was bare.
He called the gentleman back and said :
" Friend, how long have you been wed ?"
'Thirty years" (with a weary sigh),
And then he thoughtfully added, " Why?"

St. Peter was silent, with head bent down,
He raised his hand scratched his crown,
Then, seeming a different thought to take,
.      Slowly, half to himself, he spake :
'' Thirty years with that woman there ?
No wonder the man hasn't any hair !
Swearing is wicked ; smoke's not good ;
He smoked and he swore—well, I should think
he would.

" Thirty years with that tongue so sharp !
Oh ! Angel Gabriel! Give him a harp !
A jewelled harp with a golden string I
Good sir, pass in where the angels sing !
Gabriel, give him a seat alone—
One with a cushion—up near the throne !
Call up some angels to play their best,
And let him enjoy the music and rest.
See that on the finest ambrosia he feeds,
He's had about all the hell he needs.
It isn't just hardly the thing to do—•
To roast him on earth and the future too !"

They gave him a harp with golden strings.
And he said as he entered the Realm of Day :
" Well, this beats cucumbers anyway."
And so the Scriptures had come to pass,
"The last shall be first, and the first shall be last."

Price, 1d.     To be had from DAVID BAXTER, 32 Brunswick Street, Glasgow,THE BIBLE VALUED

BY THE

Little Wanderers.      

FOUNDED ON FACT.                                  


"  Read and revere the sacred page; a page
" Which not the whole creation could produce,                                        '
"  Which not the conflagration shall destroy,                                             
" In nature's ruins not one letter lost."                                                     •

Two little boys, whose pallid  looks
Bespoke them worn with care,
Came to a house in Haddington,
And ask'd for lodgings there.

The sad affecting tale they told
A tear from many drew,
And its simplicity was such
That all believed it true.

It seems while they in London liv'd,
A fever's direful sway,
Their parents took-andmadethem both
Poor orphans in one day.

And having neither friend nor home,
Or e'en the coarsest bread,
They sought a distant uncle's roof
Where to be clothed and fed.

Their earthly all two bundles held,
In one of which was found,
Belonging to the youngest boy,
A BIBLE....neatly bound !

The master to the child then said,
Money and meat you've none,
Sell me this Bible....I'll give you
Five Shillings....here is one.

Ah no ! said he, and while- he spoke
His cheeks were wet with tears,
Rather than sell it here I'll starve,
And realize my fears.

But other books are to be bought,
This Bible you'll not miss....
Yes, but no other book has stood
My friend so much as this.

In London at a Sunday-school
A Scholar I became ;
'Twas there my Bible I receiv'd,
And learnt to read the same.

In this I saw my sins were great
Although my years were few;
It shew'd me then how Jesus died,
And died for Edwin too.

Oft through my tedious way it cheers,
My spirits when they sink;
Weary and faint I've sat me down,
And found it meat and drink.

Moreover, the sweet Psalmist's words,
Have dried the tears that stole;
" In all the sorrows of my heart,
Thy word refresh'd my soul."

To try the child, six shillings then
Were offered and were brought;
Which still as nobly he refus'd,
Nor listened to the thought.

He then was ask'd, But what if you
Should meet your Uncle's scorn,
And parentless and poor be cast,
On the wide world forlorn ?
His answer might make Christians blush,
And bid their fears subside :—

"When reft of parents, home and friends, 
'The Lord will be my guide," 
The Master he forebore to speak, 
And wondering turned to gaze:— 

They wept together—Babes thought he, 
Have perfected thy praise !              
At night these little wanderers bent,     
Their knees to him who hears,        

 And feeds the ravens when they cry,   
And dries the orphan's tears.            
The following morning they resum'd  
Their journey North :—and may    
The father of the father less,                 

Be with them on their way.             
The gentle reader will not need,          
A comment on th' above :               
Will not such sentiments as these         
The coldest bosom move ?               

But let the child of sorrow learn         
Thus simply to depend                   
On him, who of the fatherless,            
Is Father, Guide, and Friend.           

PRICE ONE PENNY.THE CHILD'S DREAM.
A STORY OF HEAVEN.

Before a lonely cottage once,
With climbing roses gay,
I stood one summer's eve to watch
Two children at their play:
All round the garden walks they ran,
Filling the air with glee,
Till they were tired, and sat them down
Beneath an old oak tree.

They were silent for a little space,
And then the boy began,-
" I wonder, sister dear, if I
Shall ever be a man!
I almost think I never shall;
For, oft-times in my sleep
I dream that I am dying;-nay,
Dear sister, do not weep.

It is a joyful thing to die,
For though this world is fair.
I see a lovelier in my dreams,
And fancy I am there:
Methinks that I am taken there,
As soon as I have died,
And I roam around a pleasant place,
With an angel by my side.   
  
To that bright world I long to go,-
I would not linger here,
But for my gentle mother's sake,
And your's, my sister dear.
And when I read my book to her,
Or when I play with you,
I quite forget that glorious land,
And blessed angels too.

But oft, when I am weary grown
Of books, and of my play,
Those pleasant dreams come back again
And steal my heart away.
I wish that you, sweet sister,
And my mother dear, and I,
Could shut our eyes upon this world,
And all together die."

Then his loving sister spoke,
In tones serene and low,-
"Oh! if heaven is such a glorious place.
Dear brother, let us go:
Our mother wept when father died,
Till her bright eyes were dim;
And I know she longs to go to heaven,
That she may be with him."

"So let us all together go,"
The thoughtful boy replied,-
"Ah! no, we cannot go to heaven,
Until we, too, have died;
But, sister, we must be content
Upon this earth to stay,
Till the blessed Saviour, Jesus Christ,
Shall call our souls away."

Once more I bent my lonely way
Towards the cottage door,
Methought to see the children play,
But, alas! they were no more.
Before the next year's roses came,
That gentle call was given,-
The mother and her two sweet babes,
Had joined the saints in heaven.

J. Scott, Pittenweem ; J. Wood, Edinburgh.          CLOAK'S
KNAVERY.

COME buy my New Ballad,
I have't in my Wallet,
Tho I will not, I fear, please every Palate :
    Then mark what ensu'th,
For I swear by my Youth,
That every Line in my Ballad is Truth :
A Ballad of Wit, a brave Ballad of Worth,
'Tis newly Printed and newly come Forth,
'Twas made of a Cloak that fell out with the Gown,
That cramp'd all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown.

Ill tell you in Brief
A Story of Grief
That happened when Cloak was Commander in Chief :
It tore Common-Pray'rs,
Imprison'd Lord Mayors,
In one Day it voted down Prelates and Play'rs,
It made People perjur'd in Point of Obedience,
And the Cov'nant did cut off the Oath of Allegiance,
Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down,
That Cramp'd &c.   

It was a Black Cloak,
In good Time be it spoke
It kill'd  many Thousands, but never struck Stroke ;
With Hatchet and Rope,
The forlorn Hope,

It join'd with the Devil to pull down the Pope ;
It set all the Sects in the City to Work,
And rather  than fail't  would have brought in the Turk.
Then let us Endeavour , &c.
It Seiz'd on the Tow'r Guns,
Those fierce Demi-gorgons,
It set up the Bag-pipes, but pull'd down the Organs,
The Pulpits did Smoak,
Our church it did Choak,
And all our Religion was turned to a Cloak ;
It brought in lay Elders could not Write or Read :
It set publick Faith up, but pull'd down the Creed ;
Then let us endeavour, &c.

This Pious Impostor
Such Fury did Foster,
It left us no Penny nor no Pater Noster ;
It threw to the Ground
Ten Commandments down'
And set up twice Twenty Times Ten of its own :
 It routed the King and Villains elected
To plunder all those whom they thought Disassected
Then let us Endeavour, &c

To blind Peoples Eyes
This Cloak was so Wise,
It took off Ship Money, but set up Excise :
Men brought in their Plate
For Reasons of State
And gave it to Tom Trumpeter and his Mate :
In Pamphlets it wrote many specious Epistles
To Couzen poor Wenches of Bodkins and Whistles.
Then let us Endeavour, &c.

In Pulpits it moved,
And was much Approved
For Crying out, Fight the Lord's Battles beloved ;
It Bobtatil'd the Gown,
Pull'd Prelacy down,
It trode on the Mitre to reach at the Crown ;
And into the Field it an Army did bring
To aim at the Council but shoot at the King,
Then let us Endeavour, &c.

It raised up States
Whose Politick Pates
Do now keep their Quarters on our City Gates ;
To Father and Mother
To Sister and Brother
It  gave a Commission to kill one another :
It took up Men's Horses at very low Rates
And Plunder'd our Goods to secure our Estates,
Then let us Endeavour ,&c.

This Cloak did proceed
To a Damnable Deed,
It made the best Mirrour of Majesty Bleed :
Tho' Cloak did not do't
It set it on Foot
By rallying and calling his Journey Men to't :
For never had come such a bloody Disaster
If Cloak had not first drawn a Sword at his Master.
Then let us Endeavour, &c.

Tho some of'em went hence
By sorrowful Sentence,
This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to Repentance ;
But he and his Men,                 
Twenty  Thousand times Times Ten,
Are Ploting to do their Tricks over again :
But let this proud Cloak to Authority stoop,
Or Catch will provide him a Button and Loop,
For we'll  ever endeavour, &c.

The Lover's Discussion.

As I walked out one evening in the month of May,
The flowers they were springing the lambs did sport and play;
I heard a couple talking, as they walked hand in hand;
For to hear their conversation I eagerly did stand.

John says, I am a Roman Catholic, that ne'er denied my faith,
He says I am a Heretic, being of the Saxon race;
To hear how they performed I listened in a bush,
He says to her my charmer I thought I had my wish.

She says to him dear Johnny, tell me what do you mean,
That I will dear Nancy, and soon to you explain ;
To become a Roman Catholic as I now describe,
For I fear you are a Heretic that never was baptized.

Nancy in a passion flew, and this to him did say,
If you say I'm a Heretic young man, you may go your way,
for I am as loyal to my church, as you are to your creed,
So therefore be contented I am of the proper seed.

How can you say said, Johnny, you are of the proper seed,
That sprung from Bess and Harry, who enacted wicked deeds ;
It was Luther's Reformation that left yon in the lurch,
Fordon't you know he was a Friar that faulted from our Church.

Nancy being quite angry which was not my desire,
She to him said, dear Johnny, I know he was a Friar;
He said the Roman creed was wrong, and that he was going astray.
Until an angel of the Lord had taught him the right way.

Your creed do worship images, and that is but little faith,
We adore no graven images of either white or black;
We adore no graven images of either red or blue,
But we keep it dear within our mind of what the Lord went through,

Your Creed do worship images and very much admire,
The same are in your Testament, don't say that I'm a liar;
The Unicorn and the Lion just, like two fighting bulls
Across the table of the law, boy Martin for John Bull.

Those dukes and officers, I tell you my dear,
That go before her Majesty, they do salute her chair.
Is that chair to be compared to the shepherd and his flock,
We have in our Holy Church built on St Peter's rock.

Don't talk to me about Peter, he had but little faith
He had denied his Master, the truth for to relate;
He had denied his Master, one night among the Jews,
so Johnny go no farther, his power's of little use.

Peter denied his Master, I'll tell you the reason why,
Our Lord himself foretold it, he never told a lie;
When Peter saw what he had done, he went and wept fall sore;
He has the Keys of Heaven, and will for evermore.

St. Peter was a Martyr, and died upon a tree
So did our blessed Saviour on the hill of Calvary;
So now my charming creature, I hope you will repent,
For I have ruled to you these reasons, from the blessed book of Trent.

Martin Luther did the same, there would be but one Creed,
He did the same as Judas did, as I presume indeed;
You may contradict me. and say I'm going too far,
For Luther sold the Holy Church, and fell a wicked star.

She says to him dear Johnny, if all yon say be true,
I see it is but folly to go so far with you;
I will forsake my former creed, though my friends will me disown,
And whilst I live I'll be content, and die in the Church of Rome.

Now to conclude and finish, the truth I will express
Unknown to friends and parents, one creed they do profess;
It she Was cruel-hearted at last she did resign,
so now she is converted, which was not her design.THE

PRESBYTERY.

A SATYR.

Turba gravis paci placidoque inimico quieti.

AS Alexanders hastned death did bring
Each of his Captaines to be made a King,
Even so our Bishops ruines did preferre
Unto a Bishopricke each Presbyter;
But the same dangers from their league arise,
As ever did from th'others enmities;
Yet here they differ, th'other did advance
By their owne worth, these by their ignorance ;
Th'other were great before, these till their raigne
Did first begin, were scarcely knowne for men ;
Th'other were sit to governe, so are these,
As sit as Milk-Maids to weare Harnesses:
Fine soules indeed! curdled of stench and dust,
Borne for to break poore Chambermaids that rust
For want of use, fine motly Prester-Johns,
Old Pharises in new Editions;
Young Blew-cap Jesuites, Religions Dawes,
A Junto of Reformed Loyola's ;
Good Pulpit-Mountebankes, who with one breath
Can either Quack a Spirituall Cure, or Death ;
Antipodes of Rome, who though their feet
Seeme contrary, yet in one Centre meet;
Spruce Christian Mustyes, but that Muscyes be
Continued, these a sever'd quantitie,
Who out of many Beads one Bracelet rise,
And (if they be not hang'd up) make a noyse;
Most holy Gegawes,which make Elders dance,
Bat you are strucke by Scotch Musicians;
Rattles ot th'Gospel, which so active be,
That deafen all the better Harmonie:
Dodona's Grove, or what soever Knockes
Will say, yo'are nothing else but vocall blockes,
And yet from every trunck we alocost [?] see,
Arise an Evangelicke Mercurie;
Things, which in nothing but their lyes come neere
The nature ot the name they see me to beare;
Serious Jack-Puddings of Religion,
The Antimasque of Reformation;
The Phasphors of new light, those spots that run
(To stop, not cleere the light) amidst the Sun;
Geneva Fryars, they (with submission) lye,
That say we'ave rooted out all Popery;
Their Capes preserve it,onely that their hopes,
A (pire unto plurality of Popes :
That which poor Canterbury nere prosest,
Is now made good by every Parish-priest,
Brave times indeed ! 'las whither are we hurl'd ?
What universall madnesse shakes the world ?
What is all space so empty, earth must come,
And mount aloft to fill a Vacuum?
Are our eares charm'd, that now all sounds displease,
But a Scotch Bag-pipe? 'las what dayes are these!
Walsey might be a Deacon, and here con
A farther lesson of Ambition ;
Nay, Machiavel, if he were now alive,
Would he but change Religion, might thrive ;
Religion ! 'las it is a crazie frame,                 
And somewhat like the Synod, onely name,
Which like the great Megores renowned sway,
The most are pleas'd to mention, none obey,
Which like some glorious City ruined long,
Do's onely live in Paper and the Tongue.

Religion, which a blind man well might call            
Immense, but one that's dease, not finde at all,
That which the world doth generally disguise,
That stamp by which all knavery currant is;
Art thou thy selfe, great Nymph? or else doe some
Deflowre thee, nay force thee away from home,
And make thee doe their drudgery? O spleen,
Couldst thou but rise as some lungs strerch'd ha been,
Thou mightst boil out more hot,then ere one brother
Could to pronounce damnation on another.

Erected snakes, could but my anger now
So farre degenerate as stoope to you,
How could I thrash you and abuse you worse,
Then you your selves can a rich Poet curse,
Worse then you censure Usurers, when you look
On the lanke reckonings of an Easter Booke:
Alas, how could I daube you, worse then ere
Hicks did his English Concordance besmeare;
Or a hot Monke couId with mouth-engines work
Strange executions against the Turke?
But Ille be still, a Country Maior can soon
Quaffe all these vapours of Religion;
What? quaffe them say you ; yes, they cannot be
Surcharg'd with too much Schoole-Divinitie;
They doe not feed on Fathers,them they hate,
Both as a hard and undigested meat;
Nay, those that know them, intimately say,
They cannot Conjure by the Kabbala:
Nay, most oth' Patriarkes would be to seek,
To tell their new confession in Greek;
But they who want all weapons, will not strike,
But each prove a Rhetoricall Vandike,
Worse then the running o'th'raines, which sence
Tells onely evill in the consequence;
But this will be when th'King their Sermons heares,
When Lesly reads, and Pryn regains his eares,
When Edwards, that destroying Amurath,
His Inquisitionary Swords shall sheath
That puny Hercules, who siercely sweats,
To slay the Monsters he himselfe begets;
The English Cadmus, whose most conquering pen
Sowes Dragons teeth to raise up armed men,
Who like the Maid to the great Victor sent,
Makes poyson now become his nourishment,
Who lest the growing Sectaries should not live,
Beats them like Walnut Trees to make them thrive,
That Church Lycurgus, who to slop the sinnes
Of waste and drunkennesse, cut down the Vines,
That venerable sonne of fury, that
Makes modesly quite excommunicate,
Which in the Classick Ordinance must come in,
As numbered  for the six and thirtieth sinne,
By him you know the Brotherhood, this one
In time may make a Brotherhood alone:
But they are Planets that at distance run,
And Vines lookes like the picture of the Sun.

FINIS.

Printed in the Yeare 16[  ]THE

Spiritual

RAILWAY.

The line to Heaven by Christ was made,
With heavenly truth the rails are laid,
From Earth to Heaven it doth extend,
And   eternal is the end.

Repentance is the station then,
Where passengers are taken in ;
No fee is there for them to pay,
For Jesus is himself the way.

God's word is the first engineer,
It points the way to Heaven most clear,
Through tunnels dark and dreary here.
It does the way to glory steer.

God's word the fire, his truth the steam,
Which drives the engine and the train;
Now all who would to glory ride,
Must come to Christ, and there abide.

In first, and second, and third class,
Repentance, Faith, and Holiness,
You must the way to glory gain,
Or you with Christ can never reign.

Come then, poor sinner, now's the time,
At any station on the line,
If you repent, and turn from sin,
The train will stop and take you in.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate,)
Glasgow. Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on
hand; also, a great variety of Picture-Books,
Song-Books, Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers
supplied on Liberal Terms.
Hand-Bills, Circulars, Invoices, Business and
Fancy Cards, Large Posting Bills, Society Articles.
Pamphlets,  and Letter-Press   Printing   of   every
description, neatly and expeditiously executed on
Moderate Terms.

Printing Office, 28 Nelson Street, & 56 Trongate.

16fy gar rub her o'er Wt' strae.

An Italian  Canzone ( of Seventeen hundred Years standing)   imitated in braid Scots.

I.

GIN ye meet a bonny Lassie,

Gie her a Kiss and let her gae;
But if she be a dirty Hissy,
Fy gar rub her o'er wi' Strae.

Be sure ye dinna quat the Grip

Of ilka Joy when ye are young,

Before auld Age your Vitals nip,

And lay ye twafald o'er a Rung.

II.
SWEET Youth's a blyth and hartsome Time,

Then Lads and Lassies while it's May,
Gae pou the Gowan in its Prime,
Before it wither and decay.
Watch the fast Minutes of Delyt,

When JENNY speaks beneath her Breath,

And kisses, laying a the Wyt

On you if she kepp ony Skaith.

III.

H A i T H ye're ill bred, she'll smiling say,

Ye'll worry me, ye greedy Rook ;
Syne frae your Arms she'll rin away,
And hide her sell in some dark Nook:
Her Laugh will lead you to the Place
Where lys the Happiness ye want,
And plainly tells you to your Face,
Nineteen Naysays are haff a Grant.

IV.

Now to her heaving Bosom cling.

And sweetly toolie for a Kiss,
Frae her fair Finger whop a Ring,
As Taken of a future Bless.
These Bennisons, I'm very sure,
Are of the Gods indulgent grant;
Then surly Carles, whisht, forbear

To plague us with your whining Cant.

A. R.Luckie   Gibson's LATTER-WILL,

                                                    O   R

    Comfort to her CUSTOMERS.

NOW do I find to Death I'm near,
For half an hour shut to the Door
Till I make known all that I shall,
Cause be contain'd in my Latter Will,   
Since I must die, and to Live give o're,
Gentlemen I have a mind,
To leave you somewhat that's behind,
Well do you know or Sheriff-muir,
I ne're did keep any Where
But when you call'd they were at hand.
But ever since I Die indeed,
With a sore Pain into my Head,
No wonder you may know
What I have often said to you,
Genetlemen ( L- -d strick me Dead )
Oh ! with the World I'm loath to part,
Fearing hereafter in Grave to smart,
For the ill Actions I have done here,
For which I need to dread and fear,
For of them I had my own part,
And now since there's no help for it,
But that I must really   Depart,
And that I must to Grave Deseend,
I fear I shall smart in the End,

THE   LEGACIE.

My Legacie I am to leave     (I Live;

To your Hononrs, tho' you'd rather
I am weak of Grace,
My Wemon  are Scarce,

Yet I'le leave you the Damsiels I have.

Provided for you in great store,

A Dozen of Weman and more,

Not in the Abbay Closs,

But near to the Cross.

Whom for my self I provided before,

But since these I cannot enjoy,

Nor my former beloved Clea,

Which was always my Choice,

My Heart's only Joy's,

But alas! now to toss up my Foy,

Now Imploy your time with these Girrels.

Upon Honour, they were to my Charges

But for that it's no matter,

Since I know they'l please Nature,

Tho' they'd cost me double the Charges

There's Mrs S----t a Woman most kind,
Mrs. F----r who is of  no Paughty Mind
My Woman will go about
To get them all out.

And they without any trouble you'l find,
I gave them their Orders last Night,
For your Use to make themselves Tight,
For Gentles your fnre
I do all in my Power,
To find yon out Damsials you like,
Now Gentlemen you'l be so kind,
As to keep Honest Luckie in Mind,
That when any Refuse you,
Or offers to Abuse you,
Poor Gibson was ne're so unkind,
And for the same purpose you'l showe
To my Daughters that you did me Love
And when they'r Fifteen
They'l with you Conveen.

And give you Rewards for your Love,
Now Gentlemen go on and Prosper,
Tho yòu get a Child for to Foster,
For if you be kine                              

Yoa'l work at the Game,
And I desire you'l continue and Prosper.

Now my Dear Bairns aden,
These Gentlemen will care for you,
And when you are ready
They'l without doubt have you,
And be sure it do not fair in you.

Now farewell to World and Care,
Farewell to all  Pleasures there,
For Tortors I Bought,  
And for them I Wrought,
So farewell to Men for evermore.

Now of you a Favour I crave,
This Epitaph Write on my Grave,
Or if I chance to get a Stone,
This Epataph pray Write  upon,
For the many Favours done to you I have.

E    P   I   T    A   P   H,

(   Gibson,

HERE   lyes interred Honest Lucky
The one Debaucher of our Nation
If noe came in at Ten at Night,
Welcome I hope you'l stay till Light.HONEST JEMMY AYTON.
A NEW REFORM SONG. 
AIR—" The King of the Cannibal Islands" 

The Whigs are vapouring thro the town, 
That Frank, the Barber's * coming down, 
(The doited, petted, gabby loon)
To put out Jemmy Ayton. 
But, weel I wot, 'tis all a hum, 
E'en let the little shaver come, 
Our Union boys will strike him dumb—
Long life to Jemmy Ayton. 
See Bobby Thomson strut and puff, 
"  Pox on the Union," and such stuff; 
And t'other Bobby snub and snuff,
And sneer at Jemmy Ayton. 
Such silly creatures to suppose 
We'll choose a Member from our foes, 
Or give support to any of those
Who mock at Jemmy Ayton.
The Whigs and Tories had their day,
And tried to force us to obey,
'Tis now our turn to come in play,
And vote in Jemmy Ayton. 
Frank is not fit to fill his shoes, 
So bid him stick to his Reviews, 
Or—what will please him more—the stews,
And meddle not with Ayton. 
Who cares for Craig, so full of trick, 
Or Water Kelpie, Lauder Dick, 
That Yellow Yite, that sapless stick,
Can they compare with Ayton ? 
Then let them gabble on, and prate, 
And try to make the wee man great, 
The " Clause " has sealed the shaver's fate,
Huzza for Jemmy Ayton ! 
No Sinecurist prig need try 
To bam us with a courtier lie, 
Let him his thousands twain throw by
Before he cope with Ayton. 
So Abercrombie be assured 
The " Devonshire job " won't be endured— 
And if you stand you will be floored
By honest Jemmy Ayton !

* Francis Jeffrey, Esq. His grandfather was an honest citizen 
and barber, and this is his best claim to represent " Auld Reekie." 
Bottom, in a receot harangue, thinks want of birth a disqualifica-
tion-so do not we—and it will be an everlasting disgrace to the peo-
ple of Leith, if they support an empty lawyer, who has impudence 
enough to disparage the origin of a gentleman (Mr Aitchison) his 
equal in rank, and his superior in useful alant.          SECOND EDITION.

HUZZA !

FOR

PROVOST  SPITTAL!!!

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG.

Tune—" THE ARETHUSA."

I.

YE Whig Reformers all draw near,
To Aytoun's trash ne'er lend an ear,
But join with me in a counter cheer—

Huzza for Provost Spittal!
To hear what Aytoun's friends advance,
You'd think the other had no chance,

And that he was as snug

As a flea  in a rug,
But take my word it's all humbug,
And that Aytoun first must have a tug

For the Provostship with Spittal.

II.

For if the voters you inspect,
A great distinction you'll detect.
And those are much the most select
Who give their votes to Spittal.
The Aytounites, we all must feel,
Are really not at all genteel—
But horrid low,
From the Cowgate and Bow,
St Mary's Wynd and the Potterrow—
Where respectable Whigs would never go
To canvass even for Spittal.

III.

A Haberdasher though he be,
Yet Aytoun knows he's as good as he—
A Lawyer who ne'er touched a fee

Must not compare with Spittal.
And Spittal too has lately bought,
In Berwickshire, a pretty spot,
Called Justice Hall,
At which, though small,
He'll be very proud to see you all,
If you'll favour him with a morning call,
Whene'er he's Provost Spittal.

IV.

And though Aytoun jokes at Spittal's shop,
It's far too good a thing to drop,
And now must needs be quite tip-top

When'he is Provost Spittal.
So all of you, some afternoon,
Just step to the sign of the gold balloon,
Where, I dare to say,
You'll get away

Some ribbon or silk for a holiday,
Which, out of your thousand a-year, he'll pay,
If you'll cheer for Provost Spittal.

V.

And what's this mighty fuss we hear
About a thousand pounds a-year—
It would be cutting much too near

To grudge that sum to Spittal.
For though though the Old Town Council's up,
The New one,still must dine and sup ;
And much depends
On what he spends

To enable the Provost to gain his ends,
By giving a snack to his good Whig friends,
That vote along with Spittal.

        VI.

It would indeed be mighty hard,
If the Whigs should lose their just reward,
And all their prospects now be marr'd,

By Aytoun beating Spittal.
Reform's not worth a single fig,
Unless it serve to help a Whig ;
With much ado,
They carried it thro'
For themselves alone, and not for you,
You vile and low-bred Radical crew,
That refuse to vote for Spittal.

VII.

Then Whig Reformers, one and all,
Up with the Laird of Justice Hall,
And down with every Radical

That will not vote for Spittal.
The Tories now are fairly down,
And Whigs alone must rule the town ;

So never fear,

   Though Aytoun may jeer,
When it comes to the scratch he'll disappear—
    So Reform for ever and the thousand a-year,
      And huzza for Provost Spittal!!

           Waugh, Printer, Edinburgh.A NEW SONG

FOR THE ELECTORS OF THE
COUNTY OF MIDLOTHIAN.

TUNE.—" The Young Lochinvar."

Oh! The gallant Sir John is a Knight of renown,
And from London post-haste he has lately come down,
Having fairly got out of that innocent scrape
Of the Banners, and Mottos, and bits of Black Crape ;
So that trumpery story may pass and begone,
Nor stain the fair fame of the gallant Sir John !

To be sure there arc some, who, in their simple way,
Still give an account of " that glorious day,"
Which, were it believ'd, it were awkward to tell
When a Knight has explain'd his own story so well;
But of these foolish people there surely is none
Whom you'd weigh in the balance with gallant Sir John !

Though half of our town's folk the TREASON might see,
Or think that they saw it—'tis nothing to me—
They were only spectators—and can you suppose,
That they either could see or describe it like those
Who were part of the mob, or perhaps led it on,
Or harangued on the Hustings, like gallant Sir John !

Nay, though AYTOUN himself, the disclaimer disclaim
That would rob him of half of his well-earned Fame,
And though others like Aytoun—if others there be—
Should spurn the attempt—still 'tis nothing to me—
For well do I know that the sun never shone
On a mirror more bright than the shield of Sir John !

If some bigot, to this, like D————------------, replies,
" I chuse after all to believe my own eyes"—
Though 'twere hard to condemn him, 'twere surely more
hard
To question the faith of The SCOTTISH  BAYARD—
For one must  recur to the days that are gone
To find a compeer for the peerless Sir John !

Full oft have I heard my Grandmother tell
As a curious fact that " TRUTH" lies in a well,
And oft have I thought if there it is found,
It must follow, of course, that it's hard to be drowned;
And since this affair, I am sure there is none
Who knows this so well as the gallant Sir John !

Then long may He flourish in honour unstain'd !
No offence, no mistake —not a doubt—unexplain'd!
And may our Electors no longer be blind
To the inborn strength of a Statesman-like Mind,—
And if he have rivals, why, let them come on,
And measure a lance with the gallant Sir John !A New Whig Garland.

TUNE—A begging we will go.

I am a freeman, tight and sound,
Of Edinbro's good town,
For trade and lads of hornest heart,
     A place of high renown.

And a voting we will go, will go,
And a voting we will go.

Two Members for the Parliament
We suddenly must choose ,
Good men and true take care they be,
Who 'won't their trust abuse.

Our votes the old ones ask again,
In Parliament well tried,
But the ablest merchants of the town
Won't vote upon their side.

Their independent tradesmen too,
Are hearty in their cause;
Glad to support the men wha guard
Their liberties and laws.

They've served us well in times of peace,
And served us well in war ;
They love a Sailor in their hearts,
Nor hate the smell of tar.

But there's Jamie Abercrombie, lads,
A town's-bred bird, I swear,
Who to your cause and interests true,
No pains did ever spare.

And next there's Francis Jeffrey,
Was bred a Lawyer here,
And fights for you 'gainst Londoners
Without dismay or fear.

They know what cargoes are, and how
Our barks may find employ,
And when we thrive the most in trade,
They feel the highest joy.

If these our Members be, my lads,
Our cannons loud shall roar,
And open trade be carried on
O'er all the Indian shore.

Then honest lads, beware of lies,
Believe no idle story,
But strike at once for freedom' cause,
And down with every Tory.

And a voting, &c.             C. M'K.A POINTED AND POETIC

Appeal to the People!

Will the people submit to the horrid disgrace,
Than which I can't fancy a greater,
Of a Member whose nose is agee on his face,
(And his principles not one whit straighter ;)
And looks, by the powers, as it stands all agog,
As if it had quarrelled with half his phizog !

A straight forward Tory is not what I mean,
One whose deeds and whose pledges agree,
For that is a creature that never has been,
And never is likely to be !
But surely the Tories at least might have chose
A lad who could boast of a straightforward nose.

If to " follow his nose '' any one should advise,
'Twill be well that he never should heed him,
For if with such counsel he rashly complies,
What a deuc'd crooked course it will lead him !
So let them advise, Jack, but don't you obey,
Or nil you, or will you, you can't choose but stray.

And then see its bridge ! what a terrible height!
So towering ! fleshless ! and lean !
Just almost as high, altho' not perhaps quite,
As its counterpart over the Dean !
Why, the Cockneys, in utter amaze, will exclaim,
My eye! Is the nose of each Scotchman the same?

Why, my lads, 'tis both proper the man we select,
The cause of his country should plead ;
And one who may likewise some credit reflect
On the Scotch, as a swatch of the breed ;
'Or else they'll suppose, (G-d forbid it's the case),
That the Celts have become a degenerate race.

Old Topboots, whatever his principles be,
(And I can't say I greatly admire them ;)
Yet when he rose up in the House, six feet three,
With alarm he'd be sure to inspire them ;
Atoning, perhaps, by his stature immense,
For what was deficient in logic or sense.

But really, friend Coachy, I can't see the use,
Of your bothering folk with your prosin',
For the great Hoose of Commons, depend on't's a hoose,
To which you never will thrust your wry nose in:
So stick to the wheels of your coaches about ye,
And Government's wheels will go quite weel without ye.ABERCROMBY'S ANSWER,

OR

THE EXCHEQUER GARLAND.

Another excellent New Song,

TUNE—THE ARETHUSA.

1

Ye Whigs of high and low degree,                        
Come pipe all hands on deck d'ye see,
And teach all the crew to sing out for me,
	" Huzzah for Aber-crombie !                      
Aytoun's heart may be staunch and true,
But I can't tell where is his head—can you
	He may shout and spout
	To his greasy rout,
But it's all my eye, for it's past a doubt,
That  the Tories will join us to kick him out,
	And bring in Aber-crombie!

2

He puffs himself in print to be sure,
How he cares not a curse for a sinecure,
And against all " sich" he his life will ensure,
	Unlike to Aber-crombie!
O!  it's all very well for a man to say,
He's enough to live in a gentlemanny way,
	Let's wait a wee
	'Till he's tried like me.
And mayhap he'll contrive without much ado,
To swallow his thousand  pounds or two,
	Just as well as Aber-crombie!

3

To square my life by the  good Whig plan,
As how to take  every place you can,
And, swear it was to keep out a Tory-man
	Was the will of Aber-crombie !
Some surly dogs now  and   then would say,
What the devil's done in your court I pray,
	Let them talk as they list,
	I-'s snug in my fist,
With   two thousand a year I can bear a wipe,
Like a friend  of my own who touches his pipe,
	To the same tune as Aber-crombie!

4

So ye Reformers stand by me,
And when I in Parliament shall be,
Then you shall see what -you shall see,
	If you vote for Aber-crombie!
Let honest Aytoun roar his fill,
And pledge himself to the Peoples Bill.
	I's all very true,
	But the thing won't do,
For he can't come down with the cash I suspect,
Whichh every honest man has a right to expect,
	As votes  for Aber-crombie!

A D D R E SS

T o
ROBERT MONTGOMERY ESQ;

Late   LORD PROVOST  of  the City of
Edinburgh.

WHEN shameful Vice presum'd our strects to tread,
And boist'rous Riot rear'd her lawless head,
When THE LORD'S sacred Sabbath was profan'd,
And fair EDINA'S character was stain'd ;
Which for RELIGION  long had famous been,
But now was made of ev'ry crime the Scenc :
Then (by the grace of Heav'n) MONTGOMERY came,
(Ye Bucks stagitious, tremble at the Name!)
Who nobly dar'd t'exert his well-judg'd force,
Of wickedness to stop the direful course.

Hail! worthy Sir! ----in these degenerate days,
The Muse would wish to celebrate THY praise,
Who show'st thyself to our admiring sight,
Indeed a burning and a shining light.

Tho' now thy Office high thou hast resign'd,
Yet be assured that thou still shalt find
Thy good SUCCESSOR'S   love, whom all revere;
And ev'ry Citizen in mind shall bear,
With just regard, that with becoming grace,
MONTGOMERY  glorious fill'd the PROVOST'S place,

EDINBURGH,   December   1758.ALADDIN'S LAMP.

PRICE ONE PENNY.


This deservedly popular song created a
great sensation in this city some months ago,
when intsoduced to the Glasgow Public by
that admirable singer, Mr Plumpton, then one
of the company of our Shakspere Saloon.—
It contains noble sentiments, and generous
thoughts, alike honourable to the author, and
worthy of the man. Copies can only be had
in the Poet's Box, No. 6 St. Andrews Lane.

Air—Original

Oh, had I but Aladdin's lamp,
If only for a day,
I'd try to find a link to bind
The joys that pass away.
I'd try to bring an angel's wing   
Upon this earth again,
And build true worth a home on earth,
A home beloved by men.
It should be May, and always May,
I d wreath the world with flowers ;
I'd robe the barren wilderness,
And bring life happy hours.

I'd soothe the lorn and desolate :
Increase the widow's store ;
And industry should wear a smile,
It never wore before.
Where'er there were unhappiness,
I'd use my magic sway,
And none should be in poverty,
Or dread the coming day.
It should be May and always May,
I'd wreath the world with flowers ;
I'd robe the barren wilderness,
And bring life happy hours.


The Poet's collection of songs, stories, &c.,
is unsurpassed on the page of British history
The Poet can give you a dozen Laces for
Id ; also Bell's Matches, or large Sliders, for
One Farthing a box.  The Poet's Blacking
is unsurpassed by any manufactured in the
world. and is only One Halfpenny per packet.

Saturday Morning , January 26, 1856.Anither
New Sang.

AIR—" Wae betide the Whigs o' Fife."

I.

HE swears that he was cleck'd in Fife
That he's lo'ed Scotland a' his life,
That o' her cause in every strife
He will be the promoter.
An' aff he's set frae Lunnon town
Wi' English law an' English gown,
An' to Auld Reekie he is born
To catch a Scottish voter.

II.

Gae 'wa Sir John it winna do—
We're o'er deep here for chiels like you,
We see a mill-stane through an' through—
We sift ilk cunning plotter.
An't hadna been to keep your place,
I doubt we ne'er had seen your face,
We understand the kind o' grace
Youv'e done the Scottish voter.

III.

A Scotsman ! haith ye're bauld to own't,
Ye've fyled your nest and then ye've flown't,
An' never ance looked back upon't,
Since frae it ye could totter.
The cockney wi' his buttered toast
Has sought us out since you were lost-
I think ye scarce your birth should boast
Before a Scottish voter.

IV.

   A Scotsman !! wae's me for the same
I thought that nane that owned the name
Wad heard his kintra urge her claim,
An' nae assistance brought her.
She asked far less than was her share,
Ae Scotsman's voice put down her prayer,
An' can that voice now venture here
To coort a Scottish voter !

V.

Ye needna think to win the trick,
Although Sir Tammas Lauder Dick,
Wi' a' his wits and a his stick,
Works hotter aye an' hotter.
Ye needna rin an' wear your cloots,
Wi' auld Goliah in tap boots,
Your no the kind o' stuff that suits
An honest Scottish voter.

VI.

You  promise foul, you promise fair,
You first are here, and syne ye're there,
Ye're neither fish nor flesh, I swear,
Ye smell mair like an otter.
The Whigs may play ye as they please,
Across the burn, and wi' the breeze,
They'll find you're no the best o' flees,
To catch a Scottish voter.

VII.

Ye think our questions to evade,
An weel ye ken that soople trade,
But Saunder's isna just the blade,
That ye can flam wi' butter.
Ye'll hide the truth frae him in vain,
For Sampson like he'll till't again,
An' smite ye wi' your ain jaw-bane,
The sturdy Scottish voter.

VIII.

Then cease to work against the grain,
Put your leg o'er your horse again,
(Lord !  it maun be a noble ane,
A most infernal trotter.)
An if it taks ye to your hame,
But half as fast as frae't ye came,
Brag safely that you've lost nae time,
But just the Scottish voter.AYTOUN THE YEOMAN !

OR,

THE  ORATOR LEFT IN THE  LURCH  BY
ONE OF HIS OWN VOTERS.

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG.

TUNE.—" Mr Orator Puff."

Ho ! ho ! Mr Aytoun, so now it turns out,
You're only a Tory who's turned his coat;
Since a Yeoman at Airdrie no Whig you'ld endure,
And Radicals slaughter'd at sad Bonnymuir.
Oh ! oh !  Spouter of stuff,
One side for one man is surely enough.

That others for service get pensions or place,
While you were forgot, does not better your case,
Tho' that might induce you to alter your tune,
And the helmet to doff of the heavy dragoon.
Oh ! oh !  Spoutcr of stuff,
One side for one man is surely enough.

'Tis all very well, spite of coughs and of frowns,
From the hustings to sputter your ups and your downs;
But we must have Members who did not hurra
At Yeomanry Messes for Lord Castlereagh.
Oh ! oh !  Spouter of stuff
One side for one man is surely enough.

Cheap Songs may be written by Knaves, and the Crew
Who manag'd the Beacon are friendly to you,
And would gain you some votes just because they believe
The Tories you'd serve and the people deceive.
Oh ! oh! Spouter of stuff,
One side for one man is surely enough.

But no, Mr Slyboots, 'tis better by much,
That we should leave you than you us in the lurch ;
For from what you have done, I am sorry to say,
To side with the strongest seems always your way.
Oh ! oh !  Spouter of stuff,
One side for one man is surely enough.AYTOUN,

The Friend of the
PEOPLE!!

A NEW SONG.
TUNE—" Arethusa."

Come all Reformers of the Town,
Since Jeffrey now has got the Gown,
And pitch your voice to the highest tone,
To sing huzza for Aytoun.

He is a friend to liberty,
Free trade and prosperity ;
He's a friend to our cause,
He shall gain applause ;

When the whigs against him shall take the field,
Aytoun shall ne'er to their standard yield,
Huzza for honest Aytoun.

Aytoun's the man whom we desire,
He never has shrunk from the hottest fire;
But as for the whigs they have sunk in the mire,
While we cry huzza for Aytoun.
Freedom shall our watchword be,
Our motto peace and liberty,
For our banners we shall wave,
O'er the heads of the brave ;

Our triumph then shall be complete,
For the whigs will get a sad defeat,
When the people cry for Aytoun.

Aytoun is brave and that will be seen,
He'll stick to the last for the banner of green,
Tho'the hungry whigs are very keen,
Yet they must give in to Aytoun.   
Where could they find a man so brave,
Who would the banner of freedom wave,
And certain to say,
He will gain the day,
When elected by the people's voice
Aytoun shall be the people's choice,
Huzza for honest Aytoun.

Campbell himself is like a mere,
Who tries to creep in at every hole,
Yet he'll be the loser at the Poll,
When we cry out for Aytoun .
For Aytoun only is the man,
Who can well defeat a whiggish plan,
For Dudley shall rise,
With tears in his eyes,
And quit the spot of his disgrace,
And shall seek a hole to hide his face,
When we cry huzza for Aytoun.

In Dudley it was a hopless case,
Where he tried to get a pension or place,
It now is clear he'll lose the race,
If he contend with Aytoun.
Aytoun has shown that he is free,
By far the best of all the three,
All must confess,
He'll meet with success,
The whigs now are struck with sudden fear,
When Dudley is sinking in the rear,
And the cry is loud for Aytoun.

Reformers all make up your mind,
To vote for Aytoun be inclin'd,
Prosperity you then shall find
Will come along with Aytoun ;
And then you shall free voters be,
A contrast to the thirty-three,
The dissenters in whole
Shall come to the poll;
And then the whigs shall feel very sore,
When the voice of the people shall wax more and
                    more,

         To cry huzza for Aytoun.

BOTTOM HE CAM' HERE TO WOO.

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG.

Air, — " Duncan Gray."

Bottom he cam' here to woo,
Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
 Wi' him cam' the auld Whig crew,
Ha, ha, the wooing o't;
Leith, she held her head fu' heigh,
Portobello look'd abeigh,
Musselburgh unco skeigh,
Ha, ha, &c.

Bottom fleech'd, and Bottom pray'd
Ha, ha, &c.
   Leith was not to be betray'd,
Ha, ha, &c.
Bottom waddled out and in,
Grat his e'en baith bleert and blin',
Swore that leein' was nae sin,
Ha, ha, &c.

" Loss o' votes is sair to bide,
Ha, ha. &c.
Some maun rin, and some maun ride ;
Ha, ha, &c.
Bring Sir Thomas Dick to me,
Gibson, White, and Perkins wee,
Send John Cunningham a fee,"
Ha, ha, &c.

How it comes we a' weel ken,
Ha, ha, & c.
Leith was tired o' Bottom's reign,
Ha, ha, &c.
Leith was tired o' Piper John,
And the lad she maist thought on,
Was her auld joe—Aitchison,
Ha, ha, &c.

Bottom ranted through the town,
Ha, ha, &c.
Sir Thomas in his coach cam' doun,
Ha, ha, &c.        
Leith her head fu' saucy flings,
Newhaven wi' the Duke's name rings,
And O ! the fishwives spak sic things,
Ha, ha, &c.

Aitchison's a lad o' grace,
Ha, ha, &c.
Bottom's is a piteous case,
Ha, ha, &c.
Pipe and all he has resign'd,
Yet to see his Leith unkind—
'Twill affect poor Bottom's mind,
Ha, ha, &c.BULLY STOT.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.

Bully Slot can bend a lance,
Imitate the folk o' France,
Cares no a birse for Queen or law,
Fain wad whuff our Kirk awa;
spends for priests just, tor to mock,
Wiser far than wiser folk :
Rohin,  swing your gospel flail !
Bully Stnt's i' the jail!

Bully Slot's i' the jail,
Bully Slot's i' the jail :
Rowt the news ower hill and dale,
Bully Slot's i' the jail.

Rally Slott's deep daub'd in law,
Shews our failings to a slaw,
Rents a house, yet winna pay,
Swears she rights o' priests away ;
At prayers bravely he can rant.
Haves like ony Free-Kirk saint :
Crook your haugh and drink your ale.
Bully Slot's i' the jail.

Bully Slot, &c.

Bully Slot is never slack
To cock his crest and ca' the crack,
Patronises lawless meetings,
Prayers lang and market greetings :
Honest folk he sain wad see
Drown'd a' in the saut saut sea.
Shoves his longue in a' our kail,
Bully Slot's i' the jail.

Bully Slot, &c.

Bully,Slot is fou o' grace,
Hings a sentimental face !
Has a tongue ne'er dowff not lame-
Auld Reekie, trumpet out his fame :
Tell the world a' his waes !
The martyr'd saunt to heaven raise !
Angels, come in coal-of-mail,
Bring the worthy out o'jail !
Bully Slot, &c.

Lock shore your door, pit out the fire,
Set a watch upon your byre,
Ane's gat out that should be in !
Watch she loon through thick and thin.
Lunt a blaze on ilka height,                 
Scan the comers day and night,
Tie a last upon his tail,
Bully Slot's out the jail.

Bully Slot's out the jail,
Bully Slot's out the jail :
Rowl  the news ower hill and dale,
Bully Slot's out the jail.

FREEDOM

AND

LEARMONTH

MUST CARRY THE DAY!!

A NEW SONG.
TUNE__Lillibulero, &c.

I

ALL honest electors of this our fair town
Come listen to me, and I plainly will shew
How an impudent LAWYER, with wig and
with gown,

By a good man and true, shall soon be laid low—
John Learmonth's the man
To defeat each vile plan,
In his quiet, unpretending, yet resolute way,
For in spite of their tricks,
We will beat them to sticks,
And freedom and Learmonth will carry the day.

II.

If they call him " a tradesman," I merely reply,
That his is a better and honester trade
Than a lawyer, whose life's one perpetual lie,
And who sports just the conscience for which he is paid.
They may try to be droll    

On his place at the pole,
And many smart things of the sort they may say,
Yet there's no one but feels
That we're now " upon wheels,"
And that freedom and Learmonth must carry the day.

III.

He is ONE OF OURSELVES, and has all his life been,
So that all can his talents and virtues declare;
And if at your leisure you walk t'wards THE DEAN,
You will see what a BRIDGE he has built for us there;

Your men of the law,

With their jabber and jaw,
May be all well enough in their own roguish way;
But they'll talk for some time,
Ere they " beat stone and lime,"
So Improvement and Learmonth must carry the day.

IV.

At the old burgh system, the CLIQUE used to rail,
Yet now that at last from that scourge we are free,
They would fain make us o'er by a sort of entail,
To a junto of lawyers to hold us in fee!
But GIBSON & Co.,
To their sorrow shall know,
That this is a trade which no longer will pay,
And it now shall be shewn,
And that freedom and Learmonth must carry the day.

V.

Their English ATTORNEY, with forehead of brass,
Who's been kicked here from DUDLEY will scarce do
for me,
Why,'tis worse than thedaysof old WILLIAM DUNDAS!
Far worse than the tricks of the old thirty-three !!!
No, no, Sir James, no,
We're not quite so low
As to welcome each minion of Althorp or Grey—
Your OLD DUDS, 'tis clear,
Will never do here,
And true-blue and Learmonth must carry the day.

VI.

Then Learmonth for ever ! and down with THE CLIQUE
Who have sucked us so long , but have now lost their
hold,
And who (as the song says) " tho' at their last squeak,
Still would treat us like Gatton or Sarum of old !"
JOHN LEARMONTH's the man
Who in liberty's VAN
Goes forward as smoothly as on a railway ;    .
And DUDLEY, 'tis clear,
Will  be left in the rear,
While freedom and Learmonth will carry the day !" GANGIN' A' AWRY !"

OR

LEARMONTH'S  LAMENTATION.

TUNE—" Comin' through the Rye."

I.

OH, gin a body meet a body
Canvassin' the wynde,
Wi' P------k R---------n before,
And Tories a' behind.
" Oh ! ilka ane kens Coachman John—
And built a brig hae I;"
But aye they say my politics
And me are all awry.

II.

Oh ! gin a body ask a body
What he thinks himsel'—
If he ken nocht about the thing,
What need a body tell ?
Ilka ane may something ken,
And coaches weel ken I,
But Corn-Laws, Ballot, and Reform,
They send me all awry !

III.

O gin a body meet a body
Roarin' at the Cross,
Gin ilka body hiss a body,
Wha's wad be the loss ?
For ilka ane may mak' a speech,
But deil a ane can I,
And when I hear a Wniglin's screech,
My sentence—gangs awry.

IV.

Oh ! gin a body meet a body
Gangin' to the poll,
And if they wad elect a body,
Wadna that be droll!
But ilka ane has some conceit,
And a' gae slinkin' by,
And leave the Coachman on the street,
Lookin' all awry.

V.

Oh ! yes, a body met a cady,
Stumpin' through the toun,
Wi' a' the Poll upon his back,
And Campbell at the Croon ! !
" Follow your nose, you Tory ass !
Follow your nose," they cry :
And sae I maun, for now, alas !
I'm going all awry !!!!Here's a Health to Aytoun !

A New Song.
TUNE.—Carle an' the King come.

Here's a health to Aytoun,
Health and wealth to Aytoun ;
He's the man we understan'—
Here's success to Aytoun !

The Tories they have had their day,
The lang-tongued Whigs have said their say :
But Freedom now comes into play,
And cries ' Huzzah for Aytoun !'

Here's a health la Aytoun, &c.

Nae doubt the Whigs were for the Bill,
But yet to us they've nae gude-will;
But are the same whig tyrants still,
        and hate baith us and Aytoun!

Nor was it them that gained our cause.
But us ourselves, who clause for clause,
Aye keepit at them wi' the tawse,
Laid on by men like Aytoun !

And noo already may be seen
The unco difference between
What they've prosessed and what they mean,
Which isna lost on Aytoun !

The path, say they, to all is clear-
How do they mak the fact appear ?
They ask— thres hundred pounds a-year,
     From members sich as Aytoun !!!

And though that clause withdrawn may be,
Wi' mony a base and whig-like lee,
A moudewart itsel micht see
    "Twas aimed at us and Aytoun

Then how they shew their shameless face,
Dealing themselves in Jobs so base,
And yet abusing power and place,
       To humbug us and Aytoun

There's Abererombie who would rob
The Country by a vile Whig-Job,
And ca's the People "Aytoun's Mob"—
Yet he'd contend wi' Aytoun !

But mob or no, were no to toil
To mak a place-man's kettle boil,
And he maun e'en gie up the spoil,
If he wad stan wi' Aytoun.

For now CORRUPTION pleads in vain
The cause in which she pikes her Bane,
The combat she can ne' er maintain
Wi' Honesty an' Aytoun

There's Murray too, who's known to clear
A guid sax hundred pund  a-year,
For doing—what doth not appear -
Must be shown up by Aytoun!

At Leith he's had the face to say,
'If I've the Pipe, yet I've to play'—
And that, in short, he Earnes his pay,
Like us or honest Aytoun!

But this he'd best  have let alone
For in due time it shall be shown,
His PIPE like others,has its DRONE,
A Joke I got from Aytoun!

In short the Whigs beith far  and near;
Though Pautriots they'd fain appear ,
They're ower weel kent amang us here
To pass wi' us or Aytoun.

Jeffrey himsel o' Whings the wale,
Is feckless,Fushionless,and frail,
And through the reek he'l hae his kail,
Gin he appear 'gainst Aytoun

Weel do we ken in time o' need,
Up yonder he cam little speed,
And this last clause has dune the deed,
as he shall hear frae Aytoun.

Then, brave Reformers stainch an' true,
The path o' honour still pursue,
The sacred cause depends on you,
Of Freedom and of Aytoun.

And you, Auld Reckie's dochters fair,
See that the RIBBON GREEN you wear,
For look around and tell me where
You'll find anither Aytoun.

Then here's a health to Aytoun,
Health, and wealth to Aytoun ;
I'll blythely gie my last bawbee,
To drink success to AytounHere's a Health to Aytoun,

A New- Song.

TUNE.—Carle an' the King come.

Here's a health to   Aytoun,
Health and wealth to Aytoun;
He's the man we understan'-
Here's success to Aytoun!

The Tories they have had their day,
The lang- tongued Whigs have said their say;
But Freedom now comes into play,
And cries 'Huzzah for Aytoun!'
	Here's a health to Aytoun, &c.

Nae doubt the Whigs were for the Bill,
But yet to us they've nae to guidwill;
But are the same whig tyrants still,
	and hate baith us and Aytoun.

Nor was it they that gained our cause,
But we ourselves, who clause for clause,
Aye keepit at them wi' the tawse,
	Laid on by men like Aytoun!

And now already  maybe seen
The unco difference between
What they've prosessed   and what they mean,
	Which isna lost on Aytoun.

The path, say they, to all is clear—
How do they mak the fact appear ?
They ask— three hundred pounds a-year,
	From members sich as Aytoun.

And though that clause withdrawn may be,
Wi' mony a base and whig-like lee,
A moudewart itsel micht see
	'Twas aimed at us and Aytoun.

Then how they shew their shameless face,
Dealing themselves in Jobs so base,
And yet abusing power and place,
	To humbug us and Aytoun.

There's Abercrombie who would rob
The Country by a vile Whig-Job,
And ca's the People "Aytoun's Mob" —
	Yet he'd contend wi' Ayton.

But mob or no, wer'e no to toil
To mak the place- man's kettle boil,
And he maun e'en  gie up the spoil,
	If he wad  stand wi' Aytoun.

For now CORRUPTION pleads in vain
The cause in which she  pikes her Bane,
The combat she can ne'er maintain
	Wi'   Honesty and Aytoun.

There's Murray too, who's known to clear   
A guid sax hundred pund a-year,
For doing - what doth not appear--
	Must be shown up by Aytoun.

At Leith he's had the face to say,
'If I've the Pipe, yet I've to play'-
And that, in short, he Earns his pay,
	Like us or honest Aytoun.

But  this he'd best have let alone,
For in due time it shall be shown,
His PIPE, like others has its DRONE,
	A Joke I  got from Aytoun.

In short the Whigs baith far and near,
Though pautriots thay'd fain appear,     
They're ower weel kent amang us here,   
	To pass wi' us or Aytoun.

Jeffrey himsel o' Whigs the wale,
Is feckless, fushionless, and frail,    .
And through the reek he'll hae his kail,      
	Gin he appear 'gainst Aytoun.

Weel do we ken in time o' need,
Up yonder he cam little speed,
And this last clause has dune the deed,     
	as he shall hear frae Aytoun.

Then  brave Reformers stainch an' true,
The path o' honour still pursue, 
The sacred case depends on you,
	Of Freedom and of Aytoun.

And you, Auld Reekie's dochters fair,
See that the RIBBON   GREEN you wear,         
For  look  around  and tell me where.        
	You'll find anither Aytoun.

Then here's a health to Aytoun,
Health and wealth to Aytoun;
I'll blythely gie my last bawbee,
To drink  success to Aytoun.                          HONEST JEMMY AYTON.

A NEW REFORM SONG.
Air—" The King of the Cannibal Islands.''
The Whigs are vapouring thro' the town,
That Frank, the Barber's * coming down,
(The doited, petted, gabby loon)
	To put out Jemmy Ayton.
But, weel I wot, 'tis all a hum,
E'en let the little shaver come,
Our Union boys will strike him dumb—
	Long life to Jemmy Ayton.
See Bobby Thomson strut and puff,
"  Pox on the Union," and such stuff;
And t' other Bobby snub and snuff.
	And sneer at Jemmy Ayton.
Such silly creatures to suppose
We'll choose a Member from our foes,
Or give support to any of those
	Who mock at Jemmy Ayton.
The Whigs and Tories had their day,
And tried  to force us to obey,
Tis now our turn to come in play,
	And vote in Jemmy Ayton.
Frank is not fit to fill his shoes.
So bid him stick to his Reviews,
Or—what will please him more—the stews,
	And meddle,not with Ayton.
Who cares for Craig, so full of trick,
Or Water Kelpie, Lander Dick,
That Yellow Yite, that sapless stick,
	Can they compare with Ayton?
Then let them gabble on, and prate.
And try to make the wee man great,
The ' Clause " has sealed the shaver's fate,
	Huzza for Jemmy Ayton !
No Sinecurist prig need try
To bam us with a courtier lie,
Let him his thousands twain throw by
	Before he cope with Ayton.
So Abercrombie be assured
The " Devonshire job " won't be endured—
And if you stand you will be floored
	By honest Jemmy Ayton !

• Francis Jeffrey, Esq. His grandfather was an honest citizen
and barber, and this is his best claim to represent " Auld Reekie."
Bottom, in a recent harangue, thinks want of birth a disqualifica-
tion—so do not we—and it will be an everlasting disgrace to the peo-
ple of Leith, if they support an empty lawyer, who has impudence
enough to disparage the origin of a gentleman (Mr Aitchison) his
equal in rank, and his superior in usefu alant.HUZZA

FOR

Honest Aytoun.

A NEW SONG.

TUNE—The auld wife ayont the fire.

The Whigs are vap'ring through the toun,
Wi' Campbell, counsel o' the Croun—
As if a Lunnon lawyer loon
Could ere compete wi' Aytoun !
But na, there's naething they can gie me
Can wile me aff frae Bonny Jemmy—
They'd better just at ance gang wi' me
And poll for honest Aytoun !

They find they're blawin a cauld, cauld coal,
An' sae the threap we nou maun thole
That Jemmy ne'er will face the poll—
Our honest Jemmy Aytoun !
Oh ! sirs, what comfort can there be in
That dirty Whig-like trade o' liein ?
He'd face the poll though he were diein—
Gallant Jemmy Aytoun !

I heard him speak, and sae did you,
On Monday at The Waterloo—
Od ! yon's the thing to carry through
A man like Jemmy Aytoun !
He shew'd us, wi' a warkman's skill,
How we've been cheated wi' THE BILL,
And that we'll never hae our will
Till we hae Jemmy Aytoun !

Then how he whuppit THE ATTORNEY,
Commin aff his Lunnon journey !
I only wish that short-hand Gurney,
Had been there wi' Aytoun !
He shewed the man's a perfect cheat-
That a' he wants is just a seat—
' But he maun gang anither gate,'
Quoth honest Jemmy Aytoun !

' LEARMONTH and me will fecht it out,
' Though I will beat him beyond doubt;
' Sae nou you'll gang your ways and shout,

' HUZZA FOR HONEST AYTOUN !'

Sae let us shout and let us sing,                          
And in the air our bannets fling,                                
Wi' three cheers for our gracious King,                   
And three for Jemmy Aytoun !                       

HUZZA

FOR

Honest
AYTOUN !

A NEW SONG.
TUNE. — The auld wife ayont the fire.

THE Whigs are vap'ring throug the toun,
 Wi' Campbell, counsel o' the Croun—
As if a Lunnun lawyer loon
Could ere compete wi' Aytoun !
But na, there's naething they can gie me
Can wile me aff frae Bonny Jemmy—
They'd better just at ance gang wi' me
And poll for honest Aytoun !

They find they're blawin a cauld, cauld coal.
An' sae the threep we nou maun thole
That Jemmy ne'er will face the poll—
Our honest Jemmy Aytoun !
Oh ! sirs, what comfort can there be in
That dirty Whig-like trade o' leein ?
He'd face the poll though he were deein—
Gallant Jemmy Aytoun !

I heard him speak, and sae did you,
On Monday at The Waterloo—
Od ! yon's the thing to carry through
        A man like Jemmy Aytoun!
He shew'd us, wi' a warkman's skill,
How we've been cheated wi' THE BILL,
And that we'll never hae our will
Till we hae Jemmy Aytoun !

Then how he whuppit THE ATTORNEY,
Cummin aff his Lunnon journey !
I only wish that short-hand Gurney,
Had been there wi' Aytoun !
He shewed the man's a perfect cheat—
That a' he wants is just a seat—
" But he maun gang anither gate,"
Quoth honest Jemmy Aytoun.

" LEARMONTH and me will fecht it out,
" Though I will beat him beyond doubt;
" Sae nou you'll gang your ways and shout,

" HUZZA FOR HONEST AYTOUN !"
   Sae let us shout and let us sing,
And in the air our bannets fling,
Wi' three cheers for our gracious King ,
And three for Jemmy Aytoun!HUZZAH FOR AYTOUN !

A New Song.

TUNE—The Arethusa.

Come all Reformers brave and free,
All honest men come join with me,
And pitch your voice on the highest key,
To sins—Huzza for Aytoun !
He's a Reformer tried and true,
As ere stood forth to public view;
	And before all eyes
	And without disguise,
The naked truth he plainly tells—
And allows the people to judge for themselves—
	Huzzah for honest Aytoun!

He tells us plainly he's not  rich,
Yet for places, pensions, and all sich,
Sooner than take he'd work in a ditch—
      Huzzah again for Aytoun!
And if there's a Whig that would do the some,
I for one would be glad to hear his name;
	For look at the tricks
	Of the Whig Year six,
And you'll see that as the curse of the public Purse,
Though the Tories are bad the Whigs are worse—
     How different they from Aytoun !

And truly we need not go back so far
Plainly to see what these Whigs are,
For look at him of the English bar
     That's set up against Aytoun !
Aytoun himself would hardly grudge       
To pay an honest working Judge,
	But a Job † so base
	Is such a disgrace,
That I wonder the Man can show his face
In the public streets of his native place,
     Much less contend with Aytoun !


Here's bottom, too, who for Leith would sit,
Heavy in person as in wit—
I greatly fear he must submit
    To be exposed by Aytoun :
And Bottom, when he's thus laid bare,
Will doubtless make his voters stare,
	When they learn with surprise
	The cause of his size;
How through his whole life he's been fed from the Pipe +
Till now, at last, he fully is ripe
     For the fearless hand of Aytoun !

The Whigs may hatch a nest of lies
Should danger to a friend arise,
And bid us not believe our eyes—
     Not so with honest Aytoun !
For he, though be should stand alone,
Will never, like a Coward, disown
	The gloomy array
	Of that sad day
When to the King's Park we went our way,
With banners unfurl'd, which, come what may,
    Will never be denied by Aytoun.

Gibson and Co. in close divan,
May organise some new Whig plan,
All to pull down the People's Man,
     Yet the People will have Aytoun !
Each new " Whig clause" will prove in vain
While Aytoun in our heart shall reign ;
	For he shall be sent
	To the new Parliament,
And vote for Reform to any extent,
So that many shall learn, to their cost, what is meant
     When we cry, 'Huzzah for Aytoun m!'

* It  is well known, that the year 1806, during which the Whigs were in
power, was distinguished by a greater quantity of vile political JOBS
than any other period of equal lengh in British History.

† It can be necessary to state here the History of the late infamious Ex-
chequer Job, in favour or the Honourable James Abercromby. It is gen-
erally known in this city, and duly appreciated.

‡ It is perhaps not generally known, that John Archibald Murray, Esq.
commonly called B——, a Whig Reformer, and a sworn rnrmy of
sinecures, has held, for almost half a century, the valuable sinecure of
CLERK TO THE PIPe, an office conferred on him by that staunch Reformer,
the late Lord Melville.IS SCOTLAND TO GET HOME RULE?

AKE ! Scotland, wake ! from thy long sleep,
Thy foes with stealthy footsteps creep,
   And try to rob thee of thy name,
    The dowry of a deathless fame,
   Which Wallace, Bruce, and Douglas true,

Left as a heritage to you.
With sneering look and scornful glance,
They look upon thy broken lance
And fettered limbs—thy treaty torn,—
A nation of its freedom shorn.

Rouse ! Scotland, rouse ! from sloth and fear,
Again the cry of freemen hear,
Tell Gladstone, Morley, and their crew,
That Scotland to herself is true ;
Nor will consent her lion's paw
Shall chestnuts from the furnace draw ;
Nor slave to party, but shall fight,
And strike a blow for her own right ;
No more to England will we bow,
But hold aloft our manly brow.

Shame ! Scotland, shame ! to be the slave
Of every canting English knave.
Shall London lawyers loudly brag
They 've but to come with carpet bag,
And stroke thee down with flattering speech,
And tell thee how they 'll wisely teach,
Along the English road to trudge,
A patient, loyal, obedient drudge ?
What need there then her chains to sever,
'Tis Ireland now, but Scotland never !

Rise ! Scotland, rise ! in all thy might,
With vision clear and aspect bright ;
From distant isles, from hill and dale,
From mountain hoar, and lowly vale,
From barren glen and fertile strath,
By metalled road or mountain path,
From teeming workshop, mart, or street,
Let all the sons of Scotland meet,
A true, a loyal, a patriot band,
And sweep all traitors from the land.Glasgow Melodies---No.1.

JAMIE COCKUP'S LAMENT
For his Brother, PETER.

AIR,—" Indulgent Landlord's March."

DEDICATED TO THE GLASGOW POLITICAL UNION.

O waesucks, for Peter the " Loyal !"
What's this o't come owre him at last;
Did ever man bide sic' a trial—
Did ever man stand sae aghast,
As lately he did at a meeting,
Convened in his ain borough ha'?
The thocht o't yet sets me a-greeting;
I canna owerput it ava

When Peter began wi' his chatter,
O L—d! what a hullibaloo;
The bodies set up sic a clatter,
As made even Peter look blue.
He stood—not like Venus Medicis—
His hand laid across his huge doup;
Dum foundered 'mid yelling and hisses,
Wi' een frae their holes like to loup.

At last plucking up a'  his pluck then;
(For Peter's no easily dung,)
His clench'd hands together he struck,
then,
And roared for his crony,Tam Young.
But Tam wasna there to assist him,
(Frae siccan help, gude keep us a' ;)
So after they hooted and hissed him,
They just kick'd him out o' the Ha'.

Now Peter gangs dowie and eerie,
Lamenting his pitifu' case,
Wi' een a' begrutten and bleerie,
Bedimming the brass on his face.
He rails at the " Wee Cleekie " deevils,
And swears that he'll show up the set,
Wi' a' their misdeeds and their evils,
In some future lie-all Gazette.

W. & W. Miller, Printer, 48, Trongate.Jemmie Forrest.

Tune—Johnny Cope.        

Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet ?
Or are your Bailies snoring yet ?
If ye were waukin' I would wait,
	Ye'd hae a merry, merry morning.

The frigate guns they loud did roar;
But louder did the Bailies snore,
And thought it was an unco bore
	To rise up in the morning.

And syne the Castle thunder'd loud ;
But kipper it is savoury food,
And that the Bailies understood,
	Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Granton Pier,
Nae Provost and nae Bailies here ?
They're in their beds, I muckle fear,
	Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Brandon Street,
The Provost and the Keys to meet,
And div ye think that she's to wait
	Your waukin' in the morning.

My Lord, my Lord, the Queen she's here,
And vow, my Lord he lookit queer—
And what sets her sae soon asteer ?
	Its barely nine in the morning.

Gae bring to me my robes o' state;
Come, Bailies, we will catch her yet.
Rin, rin, my Lord, ye'll be o'er late,
	She's been through the town this morning.

Awa' to Dalkeith ye maun hie,
To make your best apologie.                     
The Queen, she'll say, O fie! O fiie !!
	Ye're lazy loons in the morning.
Jemmie Forrest,

Tune -Johnny Cope.

Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet ?
Or are your Bailies snoring yet ?
If ye were waukin' I would wait,
Ye'd hae a merry, merry morning.

The frigate guns they loud did roar,
But louder did the Bailies snore,
And thought it was an unco bore
To rise up in the morning.

And syne the Castle thunder'd loud ;
But kipper it is savoury food,
And that the Bailies understood,
Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Granton Pier,
Nae Provost and nae Bailies here ?
They're in their beds, I muckle fear,
Sae early in the morning.

The Queen she's come to Brandon Street,
The Provost and the Keys to meet,
And div ye think that she's to wait
Your waukin' in the morning.

My Lord, my Lord, the Queen she's here,
And vow, my Lord he lookit queer -
And what sets her sae soon asteer ?
Its barely nine in the morning.

Gae bring to me my robes o' state ;
Come, Bailies, we will catch her yet.
Rin, rin, my Lord, ye'll be o'er late,
She's been through the town this morning.

Awa' to Dalkeith ye maun hie,
To make your best apologie.
The Queen, she'll say, O fie ! O fie !!
Ye're lazy loons in the morning.KING
PIPPIN.

A NEW SONG.

sung with unbounded applause by S-r-T. D. L - r,

Bart. at a late whig Dinner.

    
1.
I sing of KING  PIPPIn, the chief of his race,
The joy of the garden, the pride of the place—
The pride of the place—not forgetting the tree—
And of all our Whig Apples, King Pippin for me !

                        Sing down down, down derry down.
2.

He's just such  a Pippin as one might conceive 
To hang at the sign of The Adam and Eve;
And i' faith he might pass, if you saw him up there,
Both for the first Apple and primitive Pair !

                           Sing down down, down derry down.

3.

It's surprising to think how we Whig Apples swim '.
Yet the Oxenford Rennet is nothing to Him ;
And our two Nonpareils, tho' of pretty fair growth,
Must own that King Pippin's as big as them both—
Sing down down, down derry down.

4.

In my walks from Newhaven to far Fisherrow,
I have met with a Crab, or a Codling or so—
Yet I  thought the whole district could hardly produce
Common apples enough to make sauce for its goose-
Sing down down, down derry down.

5.
But a Pippin like this!—I'd be tempted to swear
By my grandmother Maggy,* that all was not  fair —
There must have ben forcing - and yet it is strange
That  forcing  itself will not do at the G—e !

                  Sing down down, down derry down. 

6.
But howe'er they have rear'd him, no man can disguise,
He's a Pippin of most preternatural size;
And if Newton had sat where he fell from on high,
Gravitation must still have been " all in my eye"—

Sing down down, down derry down.

7.

Both the sage and his system had then been laid low,
And science had never recovered the blow;
How fortunate then , both for system and sage,
That PIPPY appears in a different age!

             Sing down down, down derry down.

8.

There's a curious maxim of late taken root,
That the tree may be known, as it were, by its fruit—
And surely King Pippin an answer must be
To all who would seek to disparage the tree,

Singing down down, down derry down.

9.
Oh ! call him not fozy, though thus overgrown—
He's a flavour, as well as a size , quite his own-
And whether you boil him, or whether yon bake,
He's Pippin no mortal can ever mistake-

             Sing down down, down, derry down.

10.

Horticultural meetings are now quite the go,
And when Pippin appears at the ensuing show
The Ghost of old D—n must certainly rise
To make him a speech, and present him the prize!
Sing down down, down derry down.

11.

But I'm sure he's thin-skinn'd, as most good apples are,
And my wit may have carried me rather too far—
He's certainly too good an apple to roast,
So I now will conclude, and King Pippin's my  toast—
Sing down down, down derry down.





"wha wadna be in love wi' bonny Maggy Lauder-

               A PIPER met her," &c.


OLD SONG


Butler, Printer, Edinburgh.LOCHIEL'S   WARNING.

(NEW   VERSION.)
Respectfully Dedicated to the Electors of Inverness-shire.

W I Z A R D.

LOCHIEL ! LOCHIEL ! beware of the day
When Sir Kenneth shall meet you in battle array ;
The close of the struggle looms clear on my sight,
And the ranks of the Tories are scattered in flight.
The " Peace with Honour " bluster loudly they sound,
And boast of annexing the countries all round ;
But the voters won't listen to big blatant strains,
And the flag of Sir Kenneth waves free o'er the plains.

L O C H I E L.

Go preach to the coward thy tidings of gloom !
Knowest not, that the Cameron's Her Majesty's groom ?
But, " By Jingo," in case that thy vision comes true,
I'll send for some faggots to Father Buccleuch.

W I Z A R D.

Ah, laughest thou, Loehiel, my vision to scorn !
Fond hope of the Tories, thy wings shall be shorn !
Too soon in the fight shall thy proud spirit quail,
When opposed by Sir Kenneth, the friend of the Gael.
At his fair manly views how our hearts swell with pride,
Whilst your arrogant claims we can only deride.
By abuse and insult you can ne'er hope to win,
Or to tell you support the notorious John Dunn.
I tell you, Lochiel, you may stand in your might,
But You hinder the progress of reason and right;
Your great love for fanners they know is a ruse,
Since it blooms of a sudden, when Kenneth they choose ;
The great Chief of Gairloch they trust without fear—
He will ne'er change his farms into forests for deer ;
But thou, Oh Lochiel, were thy politics right,
Thy flag would be still on our battlement height ;
But now every hill top with embers do burn
From bonfires that tell of Sir Kenneth's return.

	L O C H I E L.

False Wizard, avaunt !   I have marshalled my clan,
With coaxing and threatening they'll plump to a man,
Bound down by the factors, they don't rightly guess
They can vote as they please without losing their lease.

Then welcome be Kenneth's array to the shock,
He will find that my seat is as firm as a rock ;
But woe to his vaunting, and woe to his cause,
Hypothec won't help him, or yet the Game Laws,
When forth goes the scum of the great Tory tribe—
Moll'son the upstart, and Innes the scribe,
All paid by the " Fund " at five guineas a-day——

W I Z A R D.

— Lochiel, Lochiel !  in vain you may bray,
And 'gainst the great Gladstone your noddle array ;
But your facts and your figures are grossly untrue,
No matter how deftly you bring them to view ;
Your pet rule of three is, War, Wanton, and Waste,
Till our commerce is ruined, our good name disgraced ;
While Europe is chuckling, and pointing with scorn
At this Jew-ridden nation, now bleeding and torn.
But the Liberals are armed, and thy cause is undone,
Though perchance you may bask in the Beaconsfield sun,
Even he, the " Immaculate's," reign will be o'er,
And Peace come with Plenty to bide on our shore.

L O C H I E L .

Down, daring insulter !   I trust not thy tale,
For ne'er shall my party a destiny meet
So black with dishonour, such a signal defeat.
I admit that our farmers of hard times complain :
But success crown'd our arms in the Afghan campaign:
You say that our prisons with bankrupts are filled :
What of that! let's remember the Zulus we killed !
'Tis true that our soldiers lie strew'n in their gore,
Through our mania for plunder, on many a shore.
Still, things might be worse ! and we hope yet to steer
Back to power on an ocean of publican beer.
Besides, by the favour of mighty Buccleuch,
Fair hopes of the peerage oft rise to my view.
But should Gairloch win, and my plume be laid low,
The loss of my pension will be a sad blow ;
And having no longer M.P. to my name,
Farewell to the " Groomship," and farewell to fame.Long live good Buccleuch.

HAIL! ALL HAIL!  NOBLE EARL OF DALKEITH

THE FARMER'S FRIEND.





WRITTEN FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE

majoroity of

T H E   EARL   OF     DALKEITH

9TH    SEPTEMBER    1852.

CHEER! Cheer! Ettrick and Teviotdale;
Let hill and dale echo cheers hearty and true;
Join in the loud hurrah, Eskdale and Liddesdale,
And hail'. hail! the young nohle chief of Buccleuch.

Sprung from a noble line, illustrious in every time;
A name never sullied, the gem of their Order :
Famous in days of yore, for glorious deeds in war ;
The guardians beloved, of the whole Scottish border.

Ennobled in mind, as in rank so exalted,
A path high and bright may he ever pursue;
Long, long may he live to inherit the wide domains,
And the great and good deeds of his fathers renew.

Then heaven will bless him, the nation will pride in him,
Beloved and admired by good and by true—
The prayer of the widow and orphan will follow him,
And his name, like his father's, will be good Buccleuch.

Light up, on every hill, bonefires, the moon to pale,
With a halo so bright all the country imbue :
Sound it in every vale, waft it by every gale —
The twenty-first birthday of young chief of

BUCCLEUCH!'.

Live and let live.

PRINTED AND SOLD BY JAMES DALGLEISH, HIGH  STREET, HAWICK.Mr Aytoun's Campaign against the
Airdrie Radicals,

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG,

Sung, with great applause, at the last dinner given by
the Edinburgh Sour Milks.



COME brother Conservatives, fill up your glasses,
And start to your feet with a hearty hurra!
Tho'no more we may draw our broad swords on the asses ,
Our tricks and our cunning will win us the day.
E'en let the Whigs prate on,
Our jolly friend Aytoun,
Who at Airdrie was with us, and brave Bonnymuir,
Can speechify rarely,
Will bother them fairly,
And still is at heart a true Tory, I'm sure.

You remember the day when we hunted the rebels,
From sunrise to sunset, yet never came near, 
Lest our wames should be bored by ther radical dibbles,
And Aytoun right crously rode on in the rear.
That night round the table,
We craw'd o'er the rabble,
And swore that Whigs never should rule o'er the land,
Aytoun stagger'd, grew doited,
And I cappernoited,
Then tumbling we swore by each other to stand.

The wine it was good, and our noddles were swimming.
Honest Aytoun was shouting , long life to our power !
And inspired by his fervour, with glasses o'er brimming ,
In chorus we joined at the wee witching hour.
The reforming communion                              
May rave about union,
But we know by turmoil our banner's up-born,
Could the fools a way hit on
To pacify Britain,
We 'ld hound our friend Aytoun upon them next morn.

Now Aytoun, here's to him with hip and hurra!
Has managed to set our old foes by the ears, 
And if we strike in boys, we 're sure of the day,
For Aytoun is with us what ever appears.
Tis true the sly knave
Must still bellow and rave,
Lest the radical noodles should smell out his meaning ,
But for all that he says,
He will, one of these days,
Show to our side his heart all along has been leaning.

Then hip, hip, hurra! for Conservative Aytoun,
Our battle he's fighting , as soon will be seen,
When once he gets in we'll not long be kept waiting,
For he's sure of a pension from Lord Aberdeen.
The Whigs have no chance,
Will not dare to advance,
On the sabre that glittered in Bonnymuir's moon,
So let us at safe distance,
Refuse our assistance,
But write clever songs on our heavy dragoon,My Big Wig all so
Mealy and White.

A NEW SONG.

Sung, without much applause, on several late occasions,
by his, Majesty's Attorney-General.

TUNE—The Black Joke.

PLAIN JOHN is my name, though they've made me Sir John,
A straight-forward man, when I have not got on
My big wig all so mealy and white.
I lately have heard of your city's distress,
And feeling my own, I could scarcely do less
Than lay down my briefs, and thus haste to your aid
Well knowing your love for our plain spoken trade,
With our big wigs all so mealy and white.

 I'm a STRANGER among you, 'tis all very true,
Yet, if you'll consider, what else could I do
For my big wig all so mealy and white ?
I was kicked out of DUDLEY some few weeks ago,
And, ere I had time to recover the blow,
I was civilly told by those masters of mine,
" You must find a new seat or your office resign,
With your big wig all so mealy and white!"

Where was I to go then an opening to seek ?
Whom could I apply to except to THE CLIQUE,
With their small wigs all so mealy and white?
They always are ready to help out a friend,
And, if he's a PLACEMAN, their zeal has no end;
They always (God bless them) have members to make,
And whatever they do, it is all for your sake,
With their small wigs all so mealy and white !

I have too little leisure already, by far,
For you know, my good friends, I'm the head of our bar,
With my big wig all so mealy and white :
Yet its common enough in the Courts where I plead
To take up a CASE that one never can read ;
This perhaps may be called by an awkwardish name,
Yet its perfectly common, and all quite the same
To our big wigs all so mealy and white !

I'm all in the dark as to all your affairs,
For in fact you have taken me quite unawares,
In my big wig all so mealy and white.
But supposing I knew them, both " measures and men,
Having half a day's leisure to give them—what then ?
I'm afraid I should find that it hardly would pay
To suffer your business to come in the way
Of my big wig all so mealy and white !

If any one asks my political creed,
I answer, 'tis one which each voter may read
In my big wig all so mealy and white.
In Church and in State my unchanging belief
Is to change with my clients—to look to my brief—
And if you elect me, I fairly may boast
That it shan't be my fault, if not found in my post
With my,big wig all so mealy and white!SIR JOHN BOGHOUSE ! !!

A NEW SONG

TUNE--" SAw YE MY FATHER."

I.

WHO cares a single louse
For Sir JOHN BOGHOUSE,
Or with AvTOUN pretends to compare him.
He's a mere Tool of the Clique,
Who, although at their last squeak,
Still would use us like GATTON of SARUM!
He's a vild Tool of the Clique, &c.
&c. &c, &c.

II.

It seems, upon  my word,
Rather more than absurd,
That BOG HOUSE should stand for the City ;
Although, perhaps, his Name
May give him some small claim
On the votes of the fuilzie Committee !
Though perhaps his dirty Name, &c.

&c,  &c, &c,
III.

The man, 'tis very clear,
Is a total stranger HERE;
Or else I must quite have forgot him.
But the Whigs, it seems, think sit
As a silthy piece of wit,
To send us both BOGHOUSe and BOTTOM ! !
But the Whigs. it seems, think sit, &c.
&c, &c. &c.

IV.



But our Member we will choose,
Upon rather cleaner views,
And  put down every Job whatsomever.
In the soul-burn we will souse
This Sir JOHn BOGHOUSE,
Singing " Freedom and AYTOuN for ever,
In the soul-burn we will souse, &c.
&c.   &c. &c.THE CLERK of the PIPE.

Or, the Leith Reform Garland.

A NEW SONG.
TUNE—Down derry down.

The Clerk of the Pipe is a man of some weight.
And nothing will serve him but serving the state ;
And the State being rebuilt on a broad-bottom'd plan,
He has fairly set up for a Parliament-man.
Sing down down, down derry down.

He's a  gallant Reformer, and ever has been.
And abhors Sinecurists   as creatures unclean ;
Being bravely resolved, as he often has shewn,
To make war on all Sinecures - saving his own.
Sing down down, down derry down.

He's an Orator too,-tho' a copy, they say,
Of leather-lung'd Jacky, the member for Bray ;
And he'd fain be a wit,—tho' by some odd mischance.
It reminds one of Jacky just learning to dance.
Sing down down, down derry down.

But tho' dull to the eye, and more dull to the ear,
Tho' heavy in front, and most heavy in rear.
The path of ambition he still must pursue,
And exhibit his parts, Oh ! my country, to you!

  Sing down down, down derry down.



So with two or three Speeches got up with due care,
And two or three jokes somewhat worse for the wear;
And two or three friends, such as one might suppose,
In the good town of Leith he his nakedness shows,

Singing down, down,down derry down.  

In Leith then behold him discoursing at large,
Of all that has never been laid to his charge,
His contempt for the rich—his regard for the poor,—
But as to the Fact of his own sinecure,

Singingdown,down,down derry down.

Then, quoth he, " I not only must make my appeal.
" In behalf of myself, but of all that's genteel,
"For a mercantile town you will never degrade,
"By chusing a member that's risen by trade."

Sing down, down, down derry down.

Says a Voter, " all this may be good in its way,
But will you, my good sir, have the kindness to say,
How among the Reformers you thus should appear,
With your sinecure-place of six hundred a-year ?"
Sing down down, down derry down.

To this the poor Clerk never answer'd a word,
But look'd round in a way that was very absurd ;
And I merely will add, since his own mouth is shut,
If he went as The Pipe, he came back as The Butt.

Sing down down, down derry down.The Great Gathering  in Glasgow  Green,

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1834.

ADDRESS TO  GLASGOW,

BY CHARLES ST. CLAIR JOHNSTONE,

LATE OF SALTON, EAST  LOTHIAN.

AIR—" Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled."

HAIL ! Glasgow, freedom's chosen seat!
Hail to thy great heart-stirring fete !
Proud banners fly—drums proudly beat—
To hail bright liberty!
Hail to thy sons and daughters fair!
Pure loveliness and zeal were there,
The soul of Moore without compare—
Of ardent chivalry !

Oh ! Glasgow's daughters, glad and good,
Moulded in beauty's witching mood,
Like angels on the Green ye stood—
Fair guests from heav'n serene !
And Glasgow's lions, bold and free,
Ye men of Knox, and of M'Crie,
Ye planted freedom's sacred tree
That day upon the Green!

There were you met with souls on high,
Your beauteous ensigns deck'd the sky,
Scar'd tyranny flew wildly by,
With terror in his eye.
Then hail to thee, firm sons of might,
Girded for freedom's god-like fight,
You have the will—you have the right,
To work out liberty.

Saw ye it not light on the peak,
O' the heaven-struck obelisk*—pale and sleek,
'Twas Nelson's Spirit, 'rous'd to wreak
Vengeance on tyranny !
I saw it hov'ring o'er the throng,
Yon fleecy cloud bore it along,
And ransom'd spirits join'd in song,
And soul-bright harmony.

Lo ! when their shouts did strike the sky,
Methought time heaved her parting sigh,
And that I stood heaven's high gates nigh
My spirit bathed in joy !     
" The day will come"†-—'tis now at hand, 
When o'er this broad and uproused land,
Foul deeds shall die—truth shall command
The portals of posterity.

In blood-red wine I proudly toast,
Success to Glasgow, freemen's boast—
That ne'er on stormy seas she 's tost,
But " flourish" happily!
And Glasgow's fair shall " bear the bell,"
Their praises mind and soul will tell,
Their young hearts dance in freedom's swell,
And flutter lovingly.

Dark despots tremble at thy call,
Etherial burst of life to all,
Down they shall totter, headlong fall,
To lowest infamy.
Glasgow ! if e'er in civil strife
The peasant seize the dastard knife,
To thee we'll cling for hope and life,       
Thou city of the free.

Should e'er the mad demoniac will
Of despots seek thy blood to spill,
The soul of Bruce rejoices still,
Rejoices in thy might!
We'll nail our flag to freedom's tree,
Let cowards tremble—let them flee,
Full forth rush we—in happy glee,
And dare them to the fight!

* The Nelson obelisk was struck by lightning a few years ago.
† Le jour viendra.   Durham motto.

Price Sixpence.THE

JUSTE
MILIEU.

THE juste milieu, the juste milieu,
From France imported neat and new,
Is now the rule on Britain's shore,
And homespun truth is prized no more !
Where once you saw the old true blue,
You now have got the juste milieu.

Who tries the juste milieu to hold,
Renounces all that's free and bold ;
Shuffling and shifting to and fro,
He wont say " yes," he cant say " no,"
But vibrating between the two,
'Tis thus he keeps the juste milieu.

A trimmer still in Church and State,
No theme can rouse his love or hate;
Lukewarm and listless, dull and slow,
A timid friend, a feeble foe ;
He's half with me and half with you,
And cheats us both, this juste milieu.

Out on this garb of fraud and guile,
This shilly-shally, see-saw style!
Give me the man who scorns to sneak,
Can strongly feel and firmly speak,
A manly course will dare pursue,
And spurns this truckling juste milieu.

And see, at last, the scurvy end
That must the trimmer's plans attend !
Between two stools the body's weight
Can find no sure or stable seat—
He totters soon, and, slipping through,
Falls plump upon his juste milieu.A NEW SONG TO AN OLD TUNE.

The Laird of D—mm—e.

TUNE— " The Laird of Cockpen."

The Laird of D—mm—e  he's gude and he's great,
He's ta'en up his head wi' affairs o' the state,
A Parliament-man he's determin'd to be,
O what wad ye think o' the Laird an M.P.
O what wad, &c.

The Laird he has plenty, baith siller and land,
The Laird's " independent"—can pay on demand ;
But whisky nor siller he'll never make more,
If you'll pledge to support the Laird o' D—mm—e.
If you pledge, &c.

And noo' a' ye dealers in whisky and tea,
Wha's accounts in his book stan' a wee bit agee,           
Only pledge him your vote—it will clear aff your score,
And begin a new leaf wi' the Laird o' D—mm —e.
And begin, &c.

Ne'er daur to say " Na," unless you've the cash,
Or aiblins the Laird may gie you some fash,
For his twa harpy writers will be at your door
Wi' accounts ye maun pay to the Laird o' D—mm—e.
Wi' accounts, &c.

Noo a' ye blue jackets, tak' care how ye vote,
The Laird's " independent"—but mind ye are not;
For he swore, if ye bogled, ye'd ne'er dreg the shore
For oysters, in spite o' the Laird o' D—mm—e.
For oysters, &c.

An' mind dinna bather the Laird wi" your jaw,
'Bout Pensions or Pledges, Reform in the Law,
Corn Laws or Kirk Patronage—sure its a bore,
Ye may ken weel eneugh, to the Laird o' D—mm—e,
Ye may ken, &c.

Then silence your claver o' Whigs and o' Tories,
Did he no 'come Reformer to end a sic stories ?
And as for the lave, ye maun leave a back door,
Ye maunna be hard on the Laird o' D—mm—e.
Ye maunna, &c.

Regardin' sic stuff as his qualification,
It's true he's no gifted wi' speechification ;
But he'll vote—as his party aft voted afore—
The silent and usefu' guid Laird o' D—mm—e.
The silent, &c.

Ye've heard o', nae doubt, the wise men o' the east,
I'm sure the Laird's ane, and I'll gie ye my test,
For he's just like the hoolet, that emblem o' yore,
O' muteness and wisdom, sage Laird o' D—mm—e.
O' muteness, &c.

Then wha wad na vote for the Laird o' D—mm—e,
He'll stand to the Poll—tho' he ran ance afore ;
And elected, he'll leave aff gude whisky to brew,
An' to Lunon gang up and cried doon wi'  BQ,
An' to, &c.                  The true Scots Mens Lament  for the
Loss of the  Rights of their Ancient
Kingdom.

SHall Monarchy be quite forgot,
and of it no more neard ?
Antiquity be razed out,
and Slav'ry put in Stead?
Is Scots Mens Blood now grown so
the Valour of their Mind,    (cold
That they can never once reflect
on old long fine, &c ?
What shall become now of our Crown,
we have so long possest?
Is it no more fashonable,
that we Should have it dress'd?
Shall we it for Tobacco sell,
and never once repine?
Ah! then it's late for to reflect
on old long sine, &c.
How oft have our Fore-fathers spent
their Blood in its Defence ;
Shall we than have it stol'n away
by English Influence?                 
We'll curie the Acters of the Deed,
when under Yoke we pine:
Why will ye not again reflect
on old long sine ?
Old Albion, what will become of thee
when England sits thy Judge?
Way thou not only then expect,
Oppression but Refuge ?
It's their Design to ruine thee,
as clearly may be seen:
Why wilt thou not again reflect
on old long  sine &c
How shall our crazy Shoulders bear,
the Burden of their Tax;
Tho' they be rich, and we but poor
they will not us relax ;
Unless some skilful one ov'rturn
the Ground of their Design ;
But then it's late for to reflect
on old long fine, &c.
The Name of Britain shortly will
thy Body hence possess.
England thy Head will flourish great,
thy Body will decrease,
The Union will thy Ruine be,
thou'll know in future Time;
Yet still you seem for to forget
good old long sine &c.
Was not our Nation sometime brave,
invincible and stout;
Conquering Cesar that great King,
could not put it to Rout;
Nor not to much as Tribute get,
for all his great Design:
These Men I think thought to maintail
good old long sine, &c.          
Did not Romish Ambassadors,
before our King kneel down?
I mean Carbredus Claudius great,
most valiant of Renown;
And the Proposats of a Peace,
unto him did resign;
These Actions may make us reflect
on old long sine, &c.
The Royal Bruce, if now alive,
he surely would regrate,
And blame our Grandees irefully
of Scotland's wretched State ;

And tell them he priz'd Monarchy,
while he was in his Prime,
And bid them look right speedily
to old long sine, &c.                       
May not Experience teach thee well;
in Edward Lang-shank's Reign,
How they pretended Good to thee,
yet since mean'd no such Thing;
But meerly stole from us the Chair,
we did so much esteem:
It's strange to me ye should forget
good old long sine, &c.
Yet it was not by their own Strength,
that they gain'd such a Prise;
But by our base Malecontents
who did them well advise;
I mean, the Cuming, Kilpatrick,
Vallange of Treach'rous Mind,
Such Men I fear have now the Cause;
that we must now so pine.
Do not you mind the Barns of Air,
where eighteen Score were kill'd,
Under the Colour of a Truce,
our Worthies Blood was spill'd ?
And what by Force they could not win
by Fraud they did obtain:    
Me wonders you should so forget,
good old long sine, &c
Remember William Wallace Wight,
and his Accomplicies,
Scotland they undertook to free,
when it was in Distress.
Likewise Sir James the Black Douglas
under the Bruce's Reign;
These Men spar'd not their Blood to spill
for old long sine, &c.            
Why did you thy Union break
thou had of late with France;
Where Honors were conferr'd on thee?
but now, not so is thy Chance:
Thou must subject thy Neck unto
a false proud Nation;
And more and more strive to forget
good old long sine, &c.
Was it their seeming Riches that
induced thee to sell
Thy Honors, which as never yet
no Monarch e're could quel?
Nor our Integrities once break,
in all the bygone Time ?
Yet now ye seem for to forget
good old long sine, &c.
The elder Brother let him read,
the Neighbour Margin Line;
The second than let him look back
to ruin'd Darien:
I'm hopeful then you will remorse,
on former Ill that's done;
And strive in Time for for to maintain
good old long sine, &c,
Now mark and see what is the Cause
of this so great a Fall:
Comtempt of Faith, Falshood, Deceit,
and Villany withal;
But rouse your selves like Scotish Lads,
and quit you selves as Men :
And more and more strive to mantain
good old long sine, &c..

Edinburgh, Printed and Sold by John Reid in Pearsons-Closs 1718.The Whigs and Radicals !

Composed by John M'Lean, Coal-miner, and
Poet Laureate to his Baccanalian Majesty.

Come voters now, come every one,
Vote for Campbell as fast's you can ;
Don't let a Tory into the chair,
For he'll lead you into a snare.

Campbell is coming, hurrah ! hurrah !
Campbell is coining, hurrah ! hurrah !
Aytoun is coming, the Tories are running,
And Campbell is coming, hurrah, hurrah.

Vote for Aytoun as quick as you can,
He's fit enough for a Parliament-man,
Dress him up with the laurels so green,
He's the boy that'll surely dazzel their een.

Aytoun he lives in Heriot Raw,
He swears that he will beat them a';
He's a good man, as I understand,
He wants free trade throughout the land.

Coachman Jack, will beat a retreat,
When the Whigs and Tories meet,
For the Whigs they are too strong,
So Tory Jack he wont stand long.

Look at the nation how its distress'd,
And the poor how sorely press'd;
The want of money makes many one sad,
Which shows the times are very bad.

The Tories now they all agree
To kick out the Whigs where'er they be;
I would rather see the trade to mend,
Than bother my head a member to send.

Come fill up a bumper and let it go round,
And drink success to the King and Crown,
Success to the Whigs and Aytoun also,
Down with the Tories to the regions below.Up and Waur them
a', Johnnie.

UP and waur them a', Johnnie,
Up and waur them a',
Up and save AULD REEKIE'S pride,
And ding the man o' law !

'Tis here and there, and every where,
We meet the lawyer clan, Johnnie,
Though troth 'twad tak' the haill and mair
To make ae honest man, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

A lawyer's at the port o' Leith,
How could the villains daur, Johnnie!
And low 's the choice they've made, gude faith.
The BOTTOM of the bar, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

And here a lawyer too we've got
To speechify a wee, Johnnie,
Syne leave us when we've gi'en our vote,
And sell us for a fee, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

Oh ! let it ne'er be said or sung,
In this our hour o' need, Johnnie,
That naething but a lawyer's tongue
AULD REEKIE'S cause could plead, Johnnie!
Up and waur them a', &c.

Oh ! let it ne'er be sung or said,
A-begging we should gang, Johnnie,
And seek from far a stranger's aid
To shield our rights frae wrang, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

Throughout her streets and squares sae grand,     
Where TRADE and WEALTH abound, Johnnie, 
Should nane, to lend a helping hand,
Among her sons be found, Johnnie ?

Up and waur them a', &c.

Yes, ANE is found, wi' faithfu' heart,
Our honour  to maintain, Johnnie,
Already weel he's played his part,
And weel he'll do't again, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

The ANCIENT SEAT of Scotland's CROWN,    
Her Parliaments an' a', Johnnie,
Shall never wear the bauchled shoon
That DUDLEY'S coost awa', Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

For ance, though ne'er they do't again,
Shall Whig and Tory 'gree, Johnnie !
We'll choose a man frae 'mang OUR AIN,
And put that choice on thee, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

Though sair our faes wad haud us down,
The victory we'll get, Johnnie,
And, spite o' Campbell's silken gown,
We'll see him worsted yet, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', &c.

Though long the Clique has o'er us stood,
And tried the law to gie, Johnnie,
There's that within our Auld Town blood,
At last shall make us FREE, Johnnie !
Up and waur them a', Johnnie,
Up and waur them a',
Up and prove AULD REEKIE'S SON,
And ding the man o' law !The Triumph of Reform.

Ye sons of Scotia, raise your voice,
And let the world hear ;             
We'll make the tyrants tremble,
For their day of judgment's near.
The glorious sun of Liberty
Is bursting into light;
And Wellington knows long ago,
How Britons they can fight.
	Success to noble Early Grey,
	Who still has brav'd the storm,
	With him we'll face our country's foe,
	And make them grant Reform.

Brave Althorpe, Russell, Hume and Dan,
Has open'd all our eyes ;
If our foes will not grant us our rights,
We'll cut off their supplies.
They need not think that free-born men
By them will humbugg'd be,
We'll starve them out like jurymen,
Until that they agree.

We love our king, like honest men,
Which he well understands ;
But he should'nt strip us of our rights,
And play out of two hands.
His heart is good and true,  no doubt,
And so is noble Dan's ;
But the petticoat his master is,
And many as good a man's.
Let Wellington think on the days
Of Spain and Waterloo,             
When the Shamrock, Rose and Thistle join'd
Great Bonny to subdue.
Although we never ran from him,
From our cause he ran away,
And like a traitor wanted to
Pull down the soldiers' pay.

No wonder these big-bellied rogues
Should quake with dread and fear,
Our Bill will bring their spirits down,
And is not that good cheer !
Reform's the very thing that will
Put wind to all their riches,
The cloth that makes their strait coat now
Will then make coat and breeches.

Then lift your voices to the sky,
And let the Antis see
The axe will be laid to the root
Of their old rotten tree.
Give three cheers to the glorious cause,
Refuse it no man can ;
And three for freedom's trusty sons,
The men of Birmingham.            

A NEW SONG.

Dedicated to the Reform Committee of Dalkeith
in honour of me triumph of Reform.

Saw ye Johnnie comin, quo' she,
Johnnie Russell comin;
The Reform Bill in his hand,
And a' the Tories rinnin, quo' she,
And a' the Tories rinnin?

Saw ye Johnnie comin, quo' she,
Fee him, father, fee him;
He'll bring us back our liberty,
For a' the country's wi' him, quo' she,
For a' the country's wi' him.

Let bishop louns in their black gowns,
W i' a their Tory faction,
Refuse to grant a nation's bill,
They'll find there's nae reaction, quo' she,
They'll find there's nae reaction.

Lord Althorp he's an honest man,
And fills a noble station ;
Long may he be just where he is,—
A counsellor o' the nation, quo' she,
A counsellor o' the nation.

Poor doggies what will they say now,—
We'll stap them in a spluchan,
Then let them bark, wi' Tory Clerk,
About the constitution, quo' she,
About the constitution.

Now let them say, whate'er they may,
About  their rotten burghs;
They've got a fa', shame take them a',
Wi' Tory Geordie Murray, quo' she,
Wi' 'Lory Geordie Murray.

That Tory nest o' vermin pest,
That's fattened on our nation,—
They've got the fling, now let us sing.
About their desolation, quo' she,
About their desolation. 

Let Brougham and Grey, and a' that may,
Stand true to British freedom,
To steer the helm o' the state,
We'll a' be sailors wi' them, quo' she,
We'll a' be sailors wi' them.

Long live the King, long live the Queen,
May every good attend them :
But a' the Tory croaking frogs.
To Botany Bay we'll send them, quo' she,
To Botany Bay we'll send them.And ilka Mearns man and bairn,
My Parody and Song shall learn.

CHRISTOPHER NORTH, the redoubtable Editor of Blackwood, the
only well-blown organ of aristocracy, has been parodyzing Lord Byron,
of radical memory, to cut a squib on a certain R. H. Baron of Exche-
quer, and the Clerk of the Pipe, (a Scotch sinecure, gifted by a benevo-
lent Tory to the man,) who has turned out the independent Member for
Leith.

MEN OF THE MEARNS ! Would not the following do for Mr THOS.
BURNETT, Reformer, heir apparent to a Baronetcy, your Candidate?

Tom Burnett came down like a wolf on the fold,
And his plaid was bedizened with Banchory gold,
And his pale senseless face was as fearless to see,
As the gullering linns of his own .native Dee.

Like the leaves of the forest when Summer is green,
The Whigs in the morn with their banners were seen ;
Like the leaves of the forest when Autumn hath blown,
That host on the morrow lay wither'd and strewn.

For the true Tory interest was strong in the blast,
While honest Tom trembled at thoughts of the past;
And the hopes of the Whiglings are gloomy and drear,
When they think of abatement in Taxes next year.

Gainst corruption in state, and division in senate,
His promise is pledged to the people at any rate ;
His pledge is but one thing (performance another),
And only will serve some black purpose to cover.

Beware then ! beware then ! Kincardine beware !
Lest a Whiggery company pick your bones bare ;
Remember, I warn you once and again,
Beware of Tom Burnett, such Whigs and such men.

 James Knox he may write, and Arbuthuott address
With high flowing language, thro' the Angus-shire press,
His eloquence borrowed, his reform too new,
Remember he thinks not what he holds out to you.

He may raise up his head 'gainst our old aristocracy,
And quote Chancellor Brougham to support his democracy ;
But all will not do, for Crathes must go,
Ere Burnett his phiz in St. Stephen's can show.

Then pledge ye the wine cup to the memory of Pitt,
To rule o'er a nation none was ever more fit,
Arid drink to Arbuthnott, and wish him success,
He's a trust-worthy Hero all the world will confess.

For who, I ask, is so good a Representative,
(Tom Burnett, the fellow, is not half so sensitive ;)                                          
If you do not propose and elect him again,                                                   
You disgrace the distinction of Mearns-shire men.                                        

Then hark ye, my friends, reform is a job,                                                  
Its supporters' desire is the public to rob;                                       
Then join not the Whigs—oh ! their banners desert',
And scorn them, and hate them in soul and in heart.                                        GEORGE CLERK'S

LAST SPEECH and DYING WORDS on the Scaffold and at Penny-
cuick, with his farewell Address to his beloved friend, Dundas,
late Member for the City of Edinburgh ; together with his
EPITAPH.

Tune—" Miller of Drone."

DEAR, dear Dundas, I'm fairly gone,
What will be done, my friend ?
Great grief will eat my flesh from bone,
And turn my enlarged mind.
Full seventy years St Stephen's hall,
Has heard us with great joy ;
But now, alas, we've got a fall,
I'm counted a bad boy.

No rotten borough can be had,
That I might tell my tale,
Which makes my very heart turn sad,
Even Nature's like to fail.
A thought has struck me to a hair,
And I shall it fulfil,
I'll make my neck even very bare,
But first I'll drink my fill.

Then without either fear or dread,
My honest friend, Dundas,
I'll do a great man's deadly deed,
In view of Ossian's glass.
I'll take a razor very sharp,
Into my well loved hall, *

I'll do the deed by Ossian's harp,
And great will be the fall.

Then like unto friend Castlereagh,
I'll strike an arter vein,
But first I'll offer once to pray,
That I may feel no pain.
Then like a madman George Clerk flew
And did the ugly deed,
Which he will ever ever rue,
And all his bloody seed.        

EPITAPH.        

O ! Satan, turn Clerk on a speet,
An upright speet, pray mind,
And let the worst of a' your deils,
That you in h-ll can find,
To turn him round for ever more,
For evermore, Amen,
That he may suffer for his crimes †
Eternity of pain.

* Ossian's Hall at Pennycuick House

† Short weights to the poor, whose cry has been
answered from He that hath said, Such as you mete
out, shall be to you mete again.CAPTAIN THOMAS GREEN'S      
Last farewell to the OCEAN and all the World, who was Execute with two more of  his Crew
at Leith within the Flood-Mark II April 1705, for Piracie and Murder.


A Dieu fair Ocean, on thee long I liv'd
Plentifully, but now am sore griev'd,
Thus shamefully to dye in thy bounds,
Without a Drop of thee to wash my Wounds.
Which might perhaps have yeilded relief,
Or else dimmished much of my grief
Is now augmented, cause a Silent Wave
Of thee not happned to have been my Grave,
For had I fallen by Neptuns fury,
Or Mars his Armes, I had not in hurry
Ended my days, as alas now I do
In great Disgrace and Confusion too,
   before GOD and the World I can,
Truly protest I never knew the Man,
Whose Murderer I was said to be,
Nor ever saw him by Land or Sea:
Yet now by Malice of one, I must Hang;
Who eat my Bread, and serv'd me oor lang:
Had I him Sooner chanc'd to set a Shore
Er we came hither,or that Lass, much more
He had never hap'ned in Bruntistand to see,
I should not been made so thankefully dye.
For this gross Crime of Murder is known,
To all Spectators at my Death I disown.
Therefore I him, and all Men do forgive,
And wishes every Man truly to Live,
In fear and favour both with GOD and Man;
And not offend either so far's he can,
Because the root of Malice doth, breed,
A Cokatrice hatch'd of the Serpents seed.
From which I pray all good Men be sav'd,
That at none may be of their Life so berav'd,
As I his day by false Accusers am,
To my disgrace, great prejudice and shame,
Which for my Youthful sins I confess,
To be GODS just Judgment, yet nevertheles
Of th' Accusation for which now I dye, 
I am before GOD and my Conscience free;
Tho that the Law hath'gainst me Sentence given,
I hope my Soul shall find Mercy in Heaven
From him who is the Searcher of Hearts,
And to each Man (is his works are) Imparts:
Wherefore I desire all Men to prove
Unfeignied to GOD and Man in Love;
Least if he should either of them offend,
Justice Pursue him with an untimely end,
As it hath done me and those of my Crew,
Who at this time bid the World adieu.



F  I  N  I  S.

E D I N B U R G H,
Printed by G. J, in the Year 1705,A  Seasonable Advice, 
TO ALL
who encline to go in Pirrating;
D R A W N    F R O M
What has happ'ned to Captain Green, 
As it were from his, own mouth,
One of that Rank.

To the Tune of,   To the Weaver if ye go, &c.

MY Country men who do intend
on Pirrating to go,
Be sure what e're ye may pretend
The certain end is wo ,
I know't to sad Experience.
The better may I tell,
I thought my self in sure defence,
But suddenly I fell.

Some often did me much perswad, 
No ill to me should come       
Altho of this should make trade
Even till the day of doom.   
But Oh ! these thoughts are nought, for now
(I tell it to my grief )
I to the SCOTS am made to bow,
and they bring no Relief.

They thought the SCOTS would never dar
An English to Sentence,
But they're beguiled very far,
Tho' they pretended Sence.
They're SCOTS, not Sots, at they did say,
Yea, Honest Men, and Bold;
Elle for the Money I would pay,
my life to me they'd fold.

They surely know how some them hate
and here they'er not behind.
They ev'n would eat such as their Meat
'f occasion they could find,
And tho' it's true, WALLACE is dead,
[I] take no Hope from that,
For sure there are some in his stead,
Who some way fill his Hat.

And now for all the Geat I won
I certainly must die.
And nought will my offence attone 
but Hanging on a Tree,
A Death! I'm sure found out at first,
for Dogs and not for Men,
I'll raches [?] suffer what they lift.
than thus my Name to stain.

But this they flighting justly 'ntend
a Scar Crow me to make,
To ev'ry Man who has a mind
such course to undertake, 
What e're we think to do 'gainst them,
I know they sure will stand:
For I can say, and all my Men,
GOD is at their Right Hand.

Therefore my Country Men, I pray
be war ye wrong the SCOTS,
For GOD 'mongst them doth open Lay,
whats done 'gainst them in Plots,
And tho' smale Faults they oft Remit,
of their great Clemencie,
Yet surely Medes, them selves they'l quite',
in Crimes of this Degree.

FINIS.                A

TRIBUTE of REGRET.

The public having,already, been put in posses-
sion, by the news papers, of all the circumstances, yet
known, connected with the unprecedentedly barbar-
ous murder lately perpetrated in this parish, (Lochwin-
noch) precludes the necessity of narrating them here.
The following is therefore offered only, as a tribute of
regret to the memory of the unknown person already
alluded to.

Song.
Tune - This Night, the Heath shall be my bed.
Written by an Inhabitant of Lochwinnoch.

                            1.

From raven wings, the wint'ry night
Flap'd storms, which nature did affright;
When far from home and home's delight, *
Pursu'd his way the

                                lonely stranger.

                             2.

Unheeded, lash'd the rain and wind, 

Nor gloom distress'd; for, on his mind,
Bright shone the joys he left behind,
That sweetly, onward urg'd the

                                                   stranger.

                             3.

But, ah! conceal'd, in yon dark wood,
A band of savage prowlers stood,
Foul as Infernals, smear'd with blood,
Who rush'd and siez'd the hapless

                                                    stranger;

                             4.

Soon, lifeless, - naked on the clay,
The mangl'd, bleeding VICTIM  lay,
Whilst hell's blue fires, (a horrid day)
Flash'd from their eyes, on thee

poor stranger.


                                  5.                          

When life, his Shrieks and Groans did crave,
Was there no rescuing arm to save

From death, and an unhallow'd grave?
That grave a second death,

                                           poor stranger.

                                   6.                   

No, NONE!------but the fierce storm which scowl'd,

And through the struggling forrest growl'd,
Relax'd its rage - a REQUIEM howl'd,

To thy yet hovering spirit,

                                               stranger.    
                                   7.

- Oft as the trav'ler chill'd by fear,

                                                       

The blood-stain'd, guiltless wood draws near,
If horror dry not up the tear.
It warm shall fall, for thee,

                                           poor stranger.
                                     8.
And, while thy BLOOD for Vengeance cries,

- Borne on the wings of deep drawn sighs,
Thy Country's pray'rs to heav'n shall rise,   
And make thy cause their own,

                                              poor stranger.

* alluding to the probability of his having a
wife, children, and other endearing relatives.

Printed, by W. Taylor, Lochwinnoch.           3d February, 1821.A LAMENT

FOR

Dr Pritchard's

Children


Oh, you kind hearted people think of Pritchard's children,
Who are five in number that are left to mourn
For the loss of their mtoher that reared them se tender,
And their grandmother too, who will never return.
For now in their graves they are consigned to slumber,
And soon hapless orphans for ever they'll be,
For their father Dr. Pritchard is sentenced for rerder,
On the twenty-eight of July he must die on a t  e,

Their grandmother Jane Taylor she loved them all dearly,
And to Dr Pritchard she often proved kind,
There was no angry feeling existed between them,
And the dark thought of murder ne'er entered her mind,
But suddenly she died likewise their dear mother,
Their remains went to Edinburgh interred for to be,
And for that double murder they've sentenced their father,
Dr. Pritchard to die upon the gallows tree.        

In eighteen sixty five on the 3rd day of July,
Dr Pritchard in Edinburgh his trial dids tand;
And on the fifth day by the grand jury's verdict,         
He then was found guilty by the laws of the land,
Drs Penny M'Lagan with Paterson and Littlejohn,
In their evidence against him they all did agree.
That Mrs Pritchard was poisoned and likewise her mother,
And for which Dr Pritchard must die on a tree.

In great pain and suffering a long time they lingered,
For the poisons he gave them it. dozes so small,
It kept them in torture till death kindly took them,
To their silent rest where we can't them recall.
But the searcher of hearts saw these black and foul murders
Dr Pritchard He did not allow to go free;
Now the stern hand of justice it has overtook him,
On the twenty-eight of July he must die on a tree.

Now the dice box of fate it has turned against Pritchard,
His time is but short and the moments do fly.
For to pardon his sins for the crimes be committed,
On the Saviour of man all his hopes now doth lie
Oh think of his orphans you kind hearted people,
And I hope there is none so heartless will be,
As point with the finger of scorn towards them,
And say that their father he died on a tree.              LAMENT

0F

Macfarlane, Blackwood

And YOUNG.

EACH feeling heart pray lend an ear
Unto this mournful tale,
It will draw a tear of sympathy,
I'm sure it cannot fail;
It's of three wretched criminals,
In prison now we lie,
For the murder of Alexander Boyd
We are condemned to die.

On the eleventh day of the next month,
What an awful sight to see,
Macfarlane, Blackwood, and Young
Are to die on the gallows tree,
A public show to high and low,
O, Lord, to thee we pray,
Our wretched souls for to receive
Upon the judgment day.

In our gloomy cells, when 'tis midnight.
His dying groans we hear,
And no rest here can we find,
For his murdered form appears,
Pointing unto us with scorn,
Which makes us quake and pale,
As he with solemn words docs cry
For vengeance on us all.

Oh, much better we had ne'er been born
To feel the grief this day.
But fate ordained it otherwise,
And we must not say nay ;
When unto us the judge did say—
No mercy you did give
To your victim, Alexander Boyd,
And none you will receive.

For the awful crime that we had done
He bade us watch and pray,
And to prepare ourselves to die
Upon that fatal day ;
An awful sight unto the friends
Whom we shall leave behind,
Hoping with the Lord to dwell,
Where we will comfort find.

What must our friends and parents feel,
When they our sentence read,
And see that we're condemned to die,
'Twill make their hearts to bleed ;
But life for life it is the word,
By the laws of God and man,
And may our fate a warning be
When we on the scaffold stand.

Now all young men and maidens fair,
To yon we write one word,
From virtue's paths, Oh, never stray,
But love and fear the Lord,
Earn your bread in honesty,
And shun bad company,
It by our parents we'd been ruled,
We now might happy be.

Unto our friends and comrades dear,
We write our lsat farewell,
Hoping such a horrid deed
You never more may tell;
It will cause many of you to shed a tear,
And tremble, when you see
Us launched into eternity,
Opon the fatal gallows tree.

LAMENT
OF
MACFARLANE,
Blackwood and Young,
At present under Sentence of Death
in Glasgow Jail.

Good people attend to our sad dismal tale,
And let our latter end be a warning to thee,
For base cruel murder we're doomed to suffer,
On the eleventh of August we must die on a tree.

Whilst others are sleeping we're constantly weeping,
No rest to our bosoms now e'er can we find ;
In sorrow we're bounded and with grief surrounded—
From the thoughts of our fate no peace can we find

Alas, that Macfarlane should e'er have been tempted,
With Blackwood and Young, poor Boyd to destroy,
Had we but remained in the bright paths of virtue,
Our lives might have ended in comfort and joy.

Oh, little we thought on the twelfth day of June,
When our poor deluded victim from the window we threw
That in two months there after our doom should he sealed,
That our lives should be taken for the one that we slew.

We murdered poor Boyd, and now we must suffer,
O, heaven ! nave pity, and do not judge we,
But grant us relief, for our poor mind's distracted,
In the height of our prime we must die on a tree.

On the twenty-first of July, in the year fifty-three,
Before the bar of justice our trial came on,
For the horrid crime of murder we were indicted,
To answer for the cruel deed we had done.

Our trial being over, our doom was soon sealed,
And now the hand of justice doth us pursue,
But the hour's fast approaching will end all our sorrow-
Dear friends and relations a long long adieu.

O, may our sad fate unto all be a warning,
To both young and old that our sad tale does hear,
Our life in this world it soon will be over,
There's no one to pity us—Lord our prayer hear.

Glasgow :—Sold Wholesale at 203 Gallowgate.LINES

ON THE

Gilmerton  Murder.

THERE was these murderers Emond, Stewart, Burk and Hare,

These men to take men's lives they did not care ;

Their victims by some means speedily dispatched away,

But the female in torture a long time did lay.

When her murderers forced their lust to fulfill,

Afterwards the wretches the body would kill ;

But the soul was far beyond these wretches' reach,

A lesson to all such heathens for to teach.

After paying some villains for a hurl in their cart,

She little knew their intentions and lustful art;

Going to Dalkeith her aged parents for to see,

She little dreamed her time was so short to be.

Let us view her exercise in all her weak power,

To keep these barbarous ruffians her body to devour;

But being overpowered by their powerful strength,

When these barbarous ruffians ran their lustful length.

See her in this deplorable and lamentable state,

Overcome by her enemies she could not Defeat;

Her thoughts and her tears being  mingled together,

In these trying times none but God can deliver.

The like never happened in our native land,

Enough to make the hair of a sinner's head to stand,

And to make the blood in the veins run cold,

To hear of these barbarians committing crimes so bold.

John Cray in Gilmerton, that noble generous man,

With love as a Christian does good as he can.

To send her in safety to her father's house,

Where she would be taken care off, and receive HO abuse.

Let us imagine how her pasents' hearts did feel,

Their daughter so industrious, and one they loved so well;

When tears, no doubt, flowed from their aged eyes,

To see their mangled daughter it would them much surprise.

It pleased the Lord in short time to take her away,

Out  of this wicked world no longer here to stay ;

When she is free from trouble and pain here below,

We trust her soul in safety to a better place did go.

When her persecuters and murderers are still left behind,

When the shores of trouble their way to find,

What thought can her murderers have at this time,

After committing so heinous and atrocious crime.

Detestable in the eyes of God and every good man,

That such wretches in cool blood contrived that plan ;

In that butchering manner they did her slay,

That they should be so far left to temptation to give way.

Murderer's crimes in general seldom do hide,

Although they may escape to another nation to abide,

Still they are tossed like a ship upon the ocean,

Their harsh and guilty conscience keeps them in motion.

Will ever her murderers close their eyes in sleep,

Thinking every moment the devil they will meet,

With their slain and mangled victim at their side,

Who on earth but them their trials can abide.

You fish in the rivers and oceans so deep,

Cry out amongst yourselves, mourn and weep,

Eor murders are now so common in our land,

Taking the great power out of our Maker's hand.

You animal creation in the world all around,

No such brutish cruelty amongst you is to be found ;

You feathered birds in your tribes of every kind,

To one another would not prove so unkind.

Each of you sings your praises in your own way,

To that Great Being who gives you the light of a new day,

You hills and dales which is aloft cry out,

It seems like a dark cloud hovering about.

For murders are getting so common in our land,

That trade and commerce is almost at a stand.

Let every good Christian put up a prayer,

That these crimes and murders become more rare;

That a judgment may not light on the land,

Men taking the power out of the Almighty's hand.

Edinburgh :—Printed for Robert Hodge.Murder of Betsy Smith.

COME all false hearted youug men and listen to my song,
It's of a dreadful murder that lately has been done ;
On the body of a damsel fair, the truth I will unfold,
the bare relation of this deed will make your blood run cold.

Near Manchester in Lancashire, this damsel she did dwell,
In service she long time had lived, till this to her befel ;
Her cheeks were like the blushing rose all in the month of May.
Until this wicked young man these words to her did say.

"Betsy my charming creature you have my heart ensnar'd ."
And with solemn vows and promises his love he oft declared ,
Till by his false deluding tongue poor Betsy was beguiled,
And soon to her misfortune great, by him she proved with child.

On the nineteenth day of August this young man did repair,
Unto the town of Manchester, to meet his Betsy there ;
Says, "Betsy, dear, come let us walk down in the flowery grove,
And there the secrcts of my heart to you I will disclose.

But 0 this wicked young man a knife he did provide,
And all unknown to his true love concealed it by his side ;
When to the fatal spot they came he thus to her did say.
"All on this night, within this grove. I will your life betray."

On bended knees she then did fall in sorrow and despair.
And loud for mercy she did call—her cries did rend the air ;
With clasped hands and uplift eyes, she cried  'O spare my life.
And I never will ask of you to make me your weded wife."

O then this wicked young man said, "no mercy will I show,"
Then took the knife all from bis side & pierced her body through
But still she smiling said to him, though trembling with fear,
"Oh ! Thomas, Thomas, spare my life ! think on your baby dear.

Twice more then withthe fatal knife he pierced her body through
Her throat was cut from ear to ear, most dreadful for to view ;
Her arms and hands and beautious face he cut and mangled so,
Whiledown uponher lillywhite breast the crimson blood did flow.

Then soon this young man taken was and unto prison sent,
In rattling chains he is confined his crimes for to lament;
Until the assizes do come on, where trembling he must stand,
To answer for the deed he's done, waiting the dread command.

Robert M'Intosh, Printer, Stationer,
Librarian, &c.,  96 King St. Calton,
Glasgow.ROBERT  STIRRAT'S

Confession of the Murder of his own
Aunt in John Street, Glasgow.

 The morning was calm,and a dawned with joy,

To the hearts of the weary,now freed from em-

ploy. 

And the day it was sacred, to rest set apart,

When Stirrat resolved to pierce his aunt's heart,

With the eye of a Demon he watched the day.
That he might take the life of the lady away.

And fix'd on his plan, he in silence doth wait,

Till a fit hour arrived for sealing her fate.

The widow, worn out, lieth down for repose,
The wretch, to her bedside, in silence he goes,

And looks, with blood, his vile hands now might 

    sleep.

With an axe in his hand he proceeds to her bed.

And , with  this bloody weapon, he lays her quite

dead.

He plunder'd the house and then went away.

For his guilty mind would not allow  him to stay.  

He flies to the change-house to seek for relief,
To drown all his cares, and create a belief.

Should he be suspected, he was not to blame.

Of such a soul deed, and  to hide his own shame.
The news of the murder did spread far and near,
Whilst, for the old lady some shed the sad tear,

And he , to escape, then to Gourock did fly,

In hopes that some vessel would quickly draw

         night

He hop'd to arrive in some far distant clime,

And escape from the punishment due to his crime,

But the strict  hand or justice did mar his career,
And caught him secure, when he thought to get

          clear.

He had, while in Gourock, committed a crime.

Which led to his seizure at the very time,

When the servants to justice had some hint of the

man.

And thought it was Stirrat, who from Glasgow
had ran.



They soon recogniz'd him, and brought him away,

And into a carriage, without more delay,

They brought  him to Glasgow, and while there

did unfold.

The murder so horrid, it makes our blood cold.
He own'd it was he that the base deed had done,
On his aunt, who had us d him like  an only son,
For the sake of her treasure he had shed the

blood.

Which came streaming from her, like unto a flood

His guilt having own'd he now lieth in jail,

The sad shocking end of his aunt to bewail;

Of  one who esteemed him and was his support,
But mark the reward which his fond aunt has

got.

Be warned all ye, who this tragedy read,

And  never  be prompted  to such a base deed ;

Such actions a this for a time may be done,

But they will be found out, and made clear as 

the sun.

wm, CARSE, Printer.The Lament

OF

Mr TAYLOR

For his wife and daughter, who were
cruelly poisened by the daughters hus-
band,

Dr PRITCHARD,

Who is now lying under sentence of
death, in the Prison of Glasgow to be
executed on the 28th July, 1865,

As I was walking one evening of late,
A Reverend old man I chanced for to meet;
His name was Micheal Taylor I must let you know,
But his fate was overshadowed with great grief and woe.

He said there was once I could happiness find.
My wife and my children were loving and kind ;
Dr. Pritohard he came with his false word and smile,
And my daughter's heart won by his deluding wiles.

Alas ! we ne'er thought that for a few pounds sake,
He would poison my wife and my daughters life take,
For we thought he was generous loving and kind,
To his false heart and conduct, alas ! we were blind.

It was woefull to see my poor wife day by day ebb,
Through effects of the poison her life wore away ;
The Doctor hard hearted did calmly look on,
And we never suspected the cause of her pain,

But he was not content with taking one life,
For the hard- hearted Doctor next poisoned his wife ;
The thoughts of foul play at length flashed on our mind
They opened the bodies and poison did find,

He was then apprehended and tried in July,
And for these cruel murders condemed for to die;
For my wife and my daughter I am now left to mourn,
For alas! to my heart they will never return.THE LAMENTATIONS OF

M'Farlane, Black wood AND Young,

At present lying in Glasgow Jail, under the awful sentence
of Death for the murder of

ALEXANDER BOYD,

In the New Vennel, Glasgow, on Sunday
Morning, 12th June, 1853.

AIR.__"Husband's  Dream."                        

Come all you young people a warning take by us three.
We are unhappy creatures that are condemned to die,
All for that horrid murder that we have lately done,
On the body of Alexander Boyd on the twelfth day of June.

Boyd has left a wife and family all on a foreign shore,
What must their grief and sorrow be when they hear he is 
no more,
For the husband he was murdered by barbarians three,
May God protect the widow and her small family.

We took him to M'Farlane's house, that is in Croiley's land,
It is in the New Vennel that we murdered that man,
We stripped him of his clothing and his money too,
And from M'Farlane's window Alexander Boyd we threw.

And when the horrid deed was done, we thought to run away,
But we were apprehended without the least delay,
All for that horrid murder, we so cruelly have done,
In the New Vennel at Glasgow on the twelfth day of June.

Then we were examined and off to prison sent,
And for the life that we have led we bitterly repeat,
And M'Farlane he did say, my parents oft told me,
To shun such evil company, or they would prove my destiny.

Then to the city of Edinburgh we were removed with speed,
To be arraigned at the bar for that horrid deed ;
It was a cruel murder and one of the blackest dye,
May the Lord have mercy on his soul and protect his family.

When our trial did come on, and we at the bar did stand,
The jury found us guilty by the laws of God and man,
Its blood for blood that is required, the judge to us did say,
Prepare yourselves to meet your God on the great judgment
day.

Oh little did our parents think when we prattled on their knee,
That we should die a shameful death upon the gallows tree,
Much better we had ne'er been born had fate ordained it so,
Than be such an awful spectacle to both the high and low.

On the 11th day of August we must give up our breath,
It is the day prepared for us to die a shameful death.
We bid good bye to our comrades all, and kind relations too,
Farewell, farewell, our dearest friends we bid you all adieu.The Crocodile.

This most wonderful song came out of the Poet's Box, and can
only be had there for the price of One Penny.

AIR—End for End Jack.

Come list, ye landsmen, unto me,
To tell you the truth I'm bound,
Of what happened me whilst I was at sea,
And the wonders there I found.
Shipwreck'd was I, just off Peru,
Scarce half a league from shore,
So, resolved was I, to have a cruise,
The country to explore.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c.

I scarcely there had scudded out,
When close long side the ocean,
I saw something move, which, at the first, I thought,
Was all the world in motion.
I quickly bore longside of it
And found 'twas a crocodile,
And from his nose to the tip of his tail,
It measured five hundred miles.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c.

This crocodile, I could plainly see,
Was not of the common race;
I was obliged to climb a very high tree
To get a sight of his face!
My eyes! when he did ope' his jaws—
Now, perhaps you'll think it a lie,
'Twas above the clouds for miles three score,
And his nose quite touched the sky.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c..

I being aloft, the sea ran high,
It blew a gale from the south—
Lost my hold, and away .did fly
Into this crocodile's mouth;
He quickly closed his jaws on me—
Thinking to grab a victim—
But I ran down his throat, dy'e see,
And, (damme) that's the way I trick'd him.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c

I travelled on for a month or two,
'Til I got in his maw,
Where I found of rum kegs not a few,
With' plenty of bullocks in straw!
Of life I banished all its cares—
For, of grub I was not stinted;
In this crocodile ten years I lived,
And was jolly well contented.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c.

This crocodile being very old,
Alas! one day he died;
He was full five years a-getting cold,
He was so long and wide!
His skin was five miles thick, I'm sure,
Or somewhere there about,
For I was full six months, or more,
Cutting a tunnel to get out.
		Oh!ri tol de rol, &c.

So, now, you see me safe on land,
Determined no more to roam;
In a ship that I passed I got a berth,
So you see me safe at home.
But if my story you should doubt—
If ever you travel the Nile,
Just where he fell you'll find the shell
Of this rummy crocodile.
		Oh! ri tol de rol, &c.The Daring Slack Wire,

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the Poet's Box,80 London Street, Glasgow.

Tune-Original.

Good evening, my friends, I'll have you to know
I went to a circus a short time ago ;
When in my box, gazing all about,
Some fellow by my side like a bear shouted out—
	Look where she goes,
	My own Sophia,
	Swinging, by Jove,
	On the daring slack wire.

Turn him out, turn him out, turn him out if you please,
When two tall policemen poor Jerry did seize ;
They hug him, they tug him, they pull him about,
But still from his box he continues to shout—
	Look where she goes,
	My own Sophia,
	Swinging, by Jove,
	On the daring slack wire.

Now, the shouting and bawling of poor Jeremiah
Caused Sophia to start as sue stood on the wire ;
Her little feet slipped, and as downward she fell,
These were the words that poor Jerry did yell—
	Look where she falls,
	My own Sophia,
	Falling, by Jove,
	From off the slack wire.

Sophia broke her fall, and as she was decending,
Showers of bouquets at her tent folks were sending ;
They kicked out Jeremiah, so he was defeated,
And this was the chorus the company repeated—
	Look where he goes,
	Poor Jeremiah,
	Kicked out, by Jove,
	Thro' the girl on the wire.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with on
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF THE NEWEST SONGS.

The ruined cottage			I'll live as long as I can
Stump speech				Jemmy Riddle
Riding in a donkey car			Johnny, I hardly knew ye
Simple Simon				Land of green ginger
German band				My bonnie wee wifie and I
Married to a mermaid			Auld Robin the laird
Beloved eye				Merry old Uncle Joe
Slap bang				Nanny that leevea next door
The throe fishers			Rattling mare and I
It's wonderful how we do		Rothesay road
but we do				Row upon the stairs
Poor little Jim				Two in the morning
Bauldie, come hame			Wearing o' the green
Boys that carry the hod			Wee Joukeydaidles
Champagne Charlie			Young man dressed in red
As  round the ring she goes		Fire, fire, fire
Noisy swell				Jones' musical party
Worn-out tile				Kiss me, mother, ere I die
Nod your head				Star of Slaine

Saturday, April 4,1874.THE COMIC DIVAN.

            TUNE — Let the Toast Pass.

Mitchelson, Printer. there doors from the Sessions
House Clerkenwell Green.

Gentlemen Visitors, how do you do?
Pop into my comic museum,
Of things rare and curious, I've got not a few
Come in and you quickly shall see 'em.

CHORUS.                                          

Call when you can here is the plan
Of the wonderful thing in my comic divan.

Did you e're see the Lord Mayor sup on I mutton chop,        
Did you e'er see a bull row a boat Sirs,
Did you e'er see a Minister spinning a top,
Or Lord Brougham a turning his coat Sirs.

Did you e'er see a black with a face white as snow            
Or a Dowager thrashing her daughter,
Did you e'er see O'Connell when jumping Jim Crow            
Or Father Mathew get drunk on pump water ?                      

Did you e'er see a voter refusing to cheer?
Did you e'er see a man and wife wrangle?
Did you e'er see an Alderman drinking small beer
Or Silk Buckingham turning a mangle?

Did you e'er see a sleepy man given to gape?                   
Or a barber make wigs out of matches?
Did you e'er see a lawyer sans parchment & tape,            
Or a husbands face cover'd with scratches ?                      

Did you e'er see a tailor cut out for a pope,                        
Or a sweep taking tea with a Duchess?
Did you e'er see top boots made of hard Windsor soap          
Or an oyster that went upon crutches !                              

Did you e'er see St. Paul's in a new pair of shoes ?              
Or a married man given to roam Sirs,                                
Did you e'er see a donkey when reading the news,
Or Lord Melbourne dining at home Sirs ?                         
	
Did you e'er see a cripple, a bowling a hoop,                     
Or a horse supping punch with a ladle,                              
Did you see Her Majesiy making peas soup,                      
While Prince Albert was rocking the cradle.                      

Did you e'er see Wellington roasting a duck,                    
Or blind people leading the blind, Sirs ?                           
Did you e'er see a jew who was drawing a truck,              
And a quaker a pushing behind?                                        



LORD ULLIN'S

Daughter.


A chiefiain to the Highlands hound,
Cried boatman do not tarry,
And I'll give thee a silver pound
To row us o'er the ferry,
Now who be ye would cross Lochgyle
This dark and stormy water,     
O I'm the Chief of Ulva's Isle
And this Lord Ullen's daughter.

And fast before her father's men
Three days we've fled together
For if he find us in the glen,
My blood will stain the heather,
His horsemen hard behind us ride,
Should they our steps discover,
Then who would cheer my bonny bride,
When they have slain her lover.

Out spoke the hardy Highland wight,
I'll go my chief, I'm ready,
It is not for your silver bright,
But for your winsome lady,
And by my word, the bonny  bird
In danger shall not tarry,
Lo. though the waves are raging white,
I'll row you o'er the ferry.

By this the storm grew loud a pace,
The water wraith was shrieking,
And in the scoul of heaven, eech face
Grew dark as they were speaking.
But still as wilder blew the wind,
And as she night grew drearer,
A down the glen rode armed men,
Their trampling sounded nearer.

Oh haste thee ! haste ! the Lady cries.
Tho' tempests round us gather,
I'll meet the raging of the skies
But not an angry father.
The boat has left a stormy land,
A stormy sea before her,
When oh, too strong for human hand,
The tempest gather'd o'er her.

And still they row'd amidst the roar
Of waters fast  prevailing,
Lord Ullin reach d that  frtal shore,
His wrath was changed to wailing :
For sore dismay'd thro' storm and shade,
His child he did discover,
One lovely hand she streiched for aid,
And one was round her lover.

Come back ! come back ! he cried in grief
Across this raging water.
And I'll forgive your Highland Chief,
" My daughter!—oh my daughter !"
'Twas vain : the loud waves lashed the shore,
Return or aid preventing :—
The waters wild went o'er his child—
And he was left lamenting.

Sold also by A. Guichard, (from I. Pitt's Toy and
Marble Warehouse.) 6, Little While Lion Street,
2 doors from the Seven Dials.MY MAGGIE SHE CAN WASH.

Noo, I am a simple chappie and plainly you may see,
I have settled doon in to this toon, and would you credit me,
I have married got, it was my lot, I have got a decent lass,
And there's none can her equal or with her can surpass.

CHORUS.

For my Maggie she can wash, and my Maggie she can sew,
And Maggie she can patch a coat and make it look like new
She can darn stockings—she is my joy and pride—
And she can keep a house and make a clean fireside.

Noo, the first time that I met her, 'twas doon in Bonar fair
she was selling stuff for Geordie Duff, a farmer body there,
He made my Maggie dairymaid and gave her right good pay,
And every time I meet them, I hear everybody say.
		My Maggie she can wash. &c,

Each one has their troubles and each one as their ills,
But time and tide it will not wait,the engine runs on wheels,
I am a porter at the station, so I may say goodbye,             
When I go there of course I will hear everybody cry.
My Maggie she can wash &c.MY NANCY.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular song can always be had in the
Poet's Box

TUNE-Original.

Tho' I'm laid up in port, and not outward bound,
In my upper works nothing is ailing;
My rudder and compass are both safe and sound,
And when called on I'm ready for sailing,
I'm pretty well stored with the comforts of life,
I've a neat little cot to my fancy;
And what's more, I've a berth in the heart of my wife,
She's my lovely, she's my lovely, she's my valuable
Nancy.

I well know that weezles and rats play me pranks,
At my cost they are feasting and drinking;
They nibble my biscuits, and gnaw at my planks,
And would fly if once I was sinking.
Lord help them poor things, they can do me no harm,
Let them pilfer away at their fancy;
They may rob me of money, try to injure my name,
But they never, no never, can deprive me of Nancy.

Aye, as well may the enemy kick against our old rocks,
That keep all our foes at a distance;
Their slander I pity, their malice I mock,
And I envy no man in existence.
And when called on to thee by that grim captain, death,
No trouble shall tickle my fancy;
I'll die like a man, and give up my last breath,
Breathe a prayer, aye, a prayer, for the welfare of
my Nancy.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

Broken-hearted shepherd
She'd a black and rolling eye
Miss Molloy
Parkhead weaver
The three fishers
It's wonderful how we do it, but we do
British working-man
Out on the spree
Dying gold-digger
Cronie o' mine
Poor little Jim
Bauldie, come hame
Boys that carry the hod
Champagne Charlie
On board the Kangaroo
The sugar shop
German band
Married to a mermaid
Beloved eye
Slap bang
Bridgeton weaver
Hankie Pankie
As round the ring she goes
Noisy swell
Worn-out tile
Nod your head
Joe Muggins the farmer
Happy uncle Joe
Dashing Navvigator
Auld Robin the laird
Rattling mare and I
Rothesay road
Row upon the stairs
Game at cards, or catch the ten      
The nose
Poor Mr Wood
Two in the morning
Wearing o' the green
Wee Joukeydaidles
Young man dressed in red
Oor wee Kate
Pat and the whale
My bonnie wee wifie and I
Auld Robin the laird
Merry old Uncle Joe
Nanny that leeves next door
Just before the battle, mother
Susan's Sunday out
Fire, fire, fire
Jones' musical party
Kiss me, mother, ere I die
Star of Slaine

Saturday, Aug. 6, 1870.
ONE POUND TWO

     ____________

Printed  and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Stationer, &c.,  9  King

Street, Glasgow,                             .

Upwards of 500 sorts always on hand ; also, a choice selection of
Song- Books, &c.    Shops and Travellers supplied on the most
liberal terms.

Now Maggy dear, I do hear you have been on the spree.
Where is my whole week's wages gone, I pray come tell to me;
When I come home at night I get no smell of drink on you,             
Yet I wish to know how you lay out my one pound two.

Johnny, my dear, I have it here, penn'd down in black and white,
Come count it up now after me, and see if I am right ;
You're told I have been on (he spree, you'll find it is not true,
Now I'll let you hear how I've laid out your one pound two.

In the first place, there's two and twopence for 12 lbs. of flour,
And twopence half-penny for yeast, altho' its rather sour.
And four score of potatoes, you know no less will do,
This is five and fourpence half-penny out of your one pound two.

For two hundred of coals this week one shilling I did pay.
Each morning a fourpenny loaf and one on a Sabbath day ?
And every morning for the child a half-penny it is true,
That is just nine shillings out of your one pound two.

There's sevenpence for sugar and sevenpence for tea,
And sevenpence tobacco, that's a penny worth each day ;
There's two shillings paid for beef. and you know no less will do,
And that is twelve and ninepenee out of one pound two.

There's a shilling goes for butter, and that is of the best.
And fourpence more for vegetables, now add up the rest ?
Now my dear you say, what do I with your money do,
That is fourteen and a penny out of your one pound two.

There's ninepence for a pound of ham, &sevenpence for steaks, 
And sixpenec too for candles, it everv week does  take:
There's twopence for two herring I paid this week
That is sixteen and a penny out of your one pound two. 

That is sixteen and a penny out of your one \ill\.The Gambler's Wife.

PRICE  ONE PENNY.

Copies of this favourite song can only he had in the
POET'S BOX,8 [        ], Glasgow

Tune--- Original,

Dark is the night—how dark—no light, no fire,
Cold on the hearth the last faint sparks expire,
Shiv'ring she watches by the cradle side,
For him who pledged her love last year a bride.
Hark, 'tis his footsteps—no, 'tis past, 'tis gone,
List, list, how wearily the time rolls on ;
Why should be leave me thus, he once was kind,
And I believed 'twould last—oh, how mad, how blind.
Rest thee, my babe—rest, rest, 'tis hunger's cry,
Sleep, for there's no food—the fount the fount is dry;
Famine and cold their weary work have done,
My heart will break and thou wilt die, and thou wilt die.
	Hark, the clock strikes one !

Hark, 'tis the dice box—yes, he's there, he's there—
For this he leaves me to despair ;
Leaves love, leaves truth, his wife, his child, for what?
The drunkard's fancied bliss, the gambler's horrid lot.
Yet I'll not chide him—no, 'tis all in vain,
"Tis long to wait, but sure he'll come again,
And I could starve and bless him but tor you, for you,
Oh, fiend, oh, fiend—hark, the clock strikes two !

Hark how the signboard cracks—the blast howls by—
Moan, moan, ye winds through the cloudy sky ;
Hark, 'tis his knock—he comes, he comes once more—
No, 'tis but the wind again, and all my hopes are o'er,
Never to bloom again and cheer me as of yore,
		Never, never again.

Can he desert me thus? he knows I stay, he knows I stay,
Night after night in loneliness, in loneliness to pray
For his return, and yet he sees no tear,
No, no, it cannot be—no, no, he will soon be here.
Nestle more closely, dear one, to my heart,
Thou art cold, thou art freezing, but we will not, will
	not part;
Husband, I die—Father, it is not he, it is not he —
Oh, God, protect my child—oh, God, protect my child—
Oh, protect my child,
		Hush—the clock struck three !

JUST PUBLISHED, PRICE ONE PENNY,
THE POET'S GRAND CATALOGUE OF SONGS.

Containing 32 pages of closely printed matter.

THIS ' MODEL CATALOGUE OF SONGS,' as it is now universally
called, contains several poetical effusions which, of them-
selves, are worth ten times the money. It will be sent free,
per post, to any part of the Three Kingdoms, on receipt of
Two Postage Stamps. This boon to the POET'S friends at a
distance cannot be too highly prized, for it brings Aladdin-
like, the wonders of the Box to every fire-side.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

The bonny fishwife		Tramp, tramp, tramp
Sarah Bell			The mangle
Jemima Jane			Try a little dancing
The Merchant of Venice		The Sugar Shop
Oh, my, my story it is true	The three fishers	
Duncan Gray			O'Ruarc's lament 
Fisherman and the monkey	Dandy Pat
Star-spangled banner		Gallant female sailor
Woman the Joy and Pride		The True Orange Boy
of the Land			Ane an' be done Wi't
The Magic Shout			New Song Committee
Caudran Side			Bold James Sherdan

Saturday Morning, Dec. 22, 1866.THE SEA CAPTAIN.



There was a sea caption was married of late
Unto a young lady, and gained her estate,
He was a sea caption and bound for the sea,
Before he was bedded he was called away.

CHORUS.—Tara dillay, tara dillillay, dallay.

There was a young squire that lived near by,
And on this young lady he cast a long eye;
He called for his coach took his footman behind,
He went to the lady and bade her be kind.
It was early next morning the young squire arose,
He dressed himself in a suit of fine clothes.
With coachman, and footman, and butler so fine,
He went to the lady and bade her be kind.
He took her in his arms, and did her embrace,
He says my dear lady take this not amiss,
Your husband, the captain, is now gone from home,
I'll make him a cuckold before he returns.
He took her in his arms and gave her a kiss,
The slice off & cut loaf can never be missed,
She looked in his face with a heart very sore,
My husband, the captain, would call me a whore.
To bed the rich squire and the lady did go,
The cook and the coachman they followed also,
The housemaid and butler lay in the next room.
And the footman lay up in the garret with Jean.
Early next morning the lady came down,
She offered ten guineas to father a son.
He says my dear lady you need never fear,
I fathered a dozen this very same year.

O  six months was over, and seven months were past,
This pretty young lady grew thick in the waist,
When eight months was over and nine months was com
That very same night the sea captain came home.
He took her in his arms, he did her embrace,
He says, my dear lady, you're thick in the waist,
It's nothing but fat the lady did say,
Would you have me grow slender since you went away;
When supper was over they sat in  the hall,
This pretty young lady she gave a loud squall,
A colic, a colic, she cries, I am so bad with a colic,
I am sure I will die.
The doctor was sent for, and when he came there,
He ordered the housemaid a drink to prepare,
The housemaid made answer all in the next room,
I'm so bad with a colic I cannot come ben.
The doctor went ben her pulse for to feel,
She says I am sick from the neck to the heels,
The doctor said little but then shook his head,
My dear you'll be better when you're brought to bed.
The midwife was sent for, and when she came there,
She delivered the lady of a young son and heir,
The cook and the housemaid she delivered the same,
And Jean in the garret she ended the game.
When all things was over, the captain drew near,
Says he, for the joke sake, I'll forgive you my dear,
There is one question more tell me if you can,
If all those four children belong to one man.
It was a rich squire that did me beguile,
And all his men servants got my servants with child;
He says, my dear jewel, I care not for that,
Eor that very same night I had a jovial corrant.
As for the West Indies my course I did steen,
I met with a lady her beauty shone clear,
I asked her the question she did not deny it,
And for the same favour I gave her a boy.The Wedding SONG of G IBB IE and MARJORIE; who were
married in Edinburgh, on the 13th of June 1718; their Ages One Hun-
dred and Sixty Years: To the Tune of, The old Woman poor and blind. 

I

Come all good People, give an Ear
 unto these Lines I've penn'd :
It's of an ancient honest Man,

near Four Score Years and Ten.
He took an Itching in his Blood,

a Wife he needs most have.
To keep him warm into his Bed,

e're he be laid in Grave.

2

And so in Haste he went away,

to view his lovely Bride;
And when he came into her House,

his Foot was like to slide.
Yet she was active in her Age,

and catch'd him in her Arms ;
Saying, My dear, be kind to me ;

who loves thy aged Charms,

3

But then says he,your Teeth are blunt

or else you've none at all;
Your Lips are hard, your Mouth is

tho' I was like to fall.       ( how
But tho' you say, That I am old,

near Four Score Years and Ten,
I love the Game that you know what

as well's any old Man.

4
My Name is Gibbie as you know,

I love you Mage full well,
Altho' your Teeth be blunt and gone

I love you wondrous well.
And with a Hand like a Bare's Foot,

he check'd her under the Chin,
And then he fell beside the Bed;

Mage thought her Love was gone.

                                                  

5

But when that Marjory found at last

her Lover was not dead ;
She catch'd him in her Arms & said,

Tell me when we shall wed.
He said, upon the Thirteenth Day

of June, we'll married be:
He said, I am but Eighty Eight,

you'r Seventy Two I  see.

6

I know our Ages now will  be

One Hundred and Sixtie;
Altho' upon the Thirteenth Day

of  June, we's married be,
With many Hundreds at our Back,

as we to Church do by ;
In Edinburgh as I do swear,

the like I ne're did spy.

7
And after that they married were

near Nidderie's Wind indeed ;
They din'd on Lamb and rosten Veal,

and Two Hens on a Place :
But after that the Drums came down

and bate before the Door ;
Then Mage she flew into his Arms,

they both fell on the Floor.

8

Now to conclude, old Men I pray,

be kind unto your Wives,
Wishing old Gibbie many Days,

and Marjory likeways:
And let young Men & Maids be kind

as Gibbie's been before ;
That married Marjory on that Day,

their Ages b'ing Eight Score.

                                           FINIS

WATTY   AND   MEG,

OR    THE    WIFE    REFORMED.

KEEN the frosty winds were blawing,
Deep the gnaw had wreathed the ploughs,
Watty, wearied a' day sawing,
Daunert down to Mungo Blne's.
Dryster Jock was sitting cracky,
Wi' Pate Tamson o' the Hill,
" Come awa'," quo' Johnny, " Watty 1
Haith we'se hae anither gill."

Watty, glad to see Jock Jabos,
Aud sae mony neibours roun';
Kicket frae his shoon the snawba's,
Syne ayont the fire gat down.
Owre a broad wi' bannoks heaped,
Cheese, and stoups, and glasses stood;
Some were roaring, ithers sleepit,
Ithers quietly chewt their cude.

Jock was selling Pate some tallow,
A' the rest a racket hel',
A' but Watty, wha, poor fallow !
Sat and smoket by himsel'.
Mungo filled him up a toothfu',
Drank his health an Meg's in ane :
Watty, puffing out a meuthfu',
Pledged him wi' a dreary grane.

" What's the matter, Watty, wi' you ?
Trouth your chafts are fa'ing in !
Something's wrang—I'm vexed to see you—
Gndesake! but ye're desperate thin I''
" Ay," quo' Watty, " things are altered,
But it s past redemption now,
L—d! I wish I had been haltered
When I married Maggy Howe!

I've been poor, and vexed, and raggy,
Tried With troubles no that sma';
Them I bore—but marrying Maggy
Laid the cap-stane o' them a'.
Night and day she's ever yelpiag,
With the weans she ne'er can gree;
When she's tired with perfect shelping,
Then she flees like fire on me.

See ye, Mungo! when shell clash on
With her everlasting clack,
Whiles I've had my neive in passion,
Liftet up to break her back !"
" O, for gudesake, keep  [  ]ae cuffets ! "
Mango shook his head and said,
" Weel I ken what sort of life it's ;
Ken ye, Watty, how I did ?—

After Begs and I were kippled,
Soon she grew like ony bear,
Brak' my shina, and when I tippled,
Harl't out my very hair.
For a wee I quietly knuckled,
But whan naething wad prevail,
Up my claes and cash I buckled,
Bees, for ever fare-ye-weel.

Then her din grew less and less aye,
Haith I gart her change her tune;
Now a better wife than Bessy
Never stept in leather shoon.
Try this, Watty—when you see her
Raying like a roaring flood,
Swear that moment that yell lea' her,—
That's the way to keep her good."

Laughing, sangs, and lasses' skirls,
Echoed now out-through the roof,
" Done !" quo' Pate, and syne his erls
Nailed the Dryster's wauked loof.
In the thrang of stories telling,
Shaking hauna, and ither cheer
swith ! a chap comes on the hallan,
"Mango, is our Watty here ?''

Maggy's weel kent tongue and hurry,
Darted through him like a knifs,
Up the door flew—like a fury
In came Watty's scawling wife.
" Nasty, gude-for-naething being !
O ye snuffy, druoken sow !
Bringing wife and weans to ruin,
Drinking here wi' sic a crew !

Devil nor your legs were broken.
Sic a life nae flesh endures,
Toiling like a slave to sloken
You, ye dyvor, and your whores.
Rise, ye drucken beast o' Bethel,
Drink's your night and day's desire;
Rise, this precious hour, or faith I'll
Fling your whisky i' the fire!"

Watty heard her tongue unhallowed,
Paid his groat wi' little din,
Left the house, while Maggy followed.
Flyting a' the road behin'.
Fowk frae every door came lamping,
Maggy curst them ane and a ;
Clappet wi' her hands, and stamping,
Lost her bauchles i' the sna'.

Hame at length, she turned the gavel
Wi' a face as white's a clouat,
Raging like a very devil,
Kicking stools and chain about.
" Ye'll sit wi' your limmers round you,
Hang yon, sir! I'll be your death;
Little hauds my hands, confound you,
But I'll cleave ye to the teeth."

Watty, wha, 'midst this oratien,
Eyed her whiles, but durstna speak,
Sat like patient Resignation,
Trembling by the ingle cheek.
Sad his wee drap brose he sippet,
Maggy's tongue gaed like a bell,
Quietly to his bed he slippet,
Sighing aften to himsel'.

" Nane are free frae some vexation,
Ilk ane has his ille to dree;
But through a' the hale creation
Is a mortal vext like me ?"
A' night lang he rowt and gaunted,
Sleep or rest he couldna' tak;
Maggy aft wi' horror haunted,
Mum'ling started at his back.

Soon as e'er the morning peepit,
Up rose Watty, waefu' chiel,
Kist his weanies while they sleepit,
Wankened Meg, and sought farewell.
" Farewell, Meg I—and, O! imay Heaven
Keep you aye within his care !
Watty s heart ye've lang been grievin',
Now he'll never fash you mair.

Happy could I been beside you,
Happy, baith at morn and e'en;
A' the ills did e'er betide you,
Watty aye turned out your frion'

But ye ever like to see me
Vext and sighing, late and air:
Farewell, Meg I I've sworn to lea' then,
So thou'll never see me mair."

Meg, a' sabbing, sae to low him,
Sio a change had never wist,
Held his hand close to her besom,
While her heart was like to burst.
" O my Watty, will ye lea' me,
Frien'less, helpless, to despair ?
O! for this ae time forgie me;
Never will I vex you mair."

" Ay ! ye've aft said that, and broken
A' your vows ten times a-week,
No, no, Meg! see, there's a token
Glittering on my bonnet cheek.
Ower the seas I march this morning,
Listed, tested, sworn and a',
Forced by your confounded girning—
Farewell, Meg ! for I'm awa'."

Then poor Maggy's tears and clamour
Gushed afresh, and louder grew,
While the weans, wi' monrnfu' yamour,
Bound their sabbing mother flew.
" Through the yirth I'll wanner wi' yoa-
Stay, O Watty ! stay at hame;
Here, upon my knees, I'll gi'e you
Ony vow ye like to name.

See your poor young lammies pleadiu',
Will ye gang and break our heart ?
No a house to put our head in,
No a friend to take our part."
Ilka word came like a bullet,
Watty's heart begoud to shake;
On a kist he laid his wallet,
Dighted buith his een and spake.

" If ance mair I could by writing,
Lea' the sogers and stay still,
Wad you swear to drap your fly ting?"
" Yes,O Watty, yes, I will."
" Then," quo' Watty, " mind, be honest;
Aye to keep your temper strive;
Gin ye break this dreadfu' promise,
Never mair expect to thrive.

Marget Howe, this hour ye solemn
Swear by every thing that's gude,
Ne'er again your spouse to scal' him,
While life warms your heart and blooe
That ye'll ne'er in Mungo's seek me,
Ne'er put drucken to my name,
Never out at e'ening steek me,
Never gloom when I come hamo.

That yell ne'er, like Bessy Miller,
Kick my shins or rug my hair;
Lastly, I'm to keep the siller;
This upon your saul you swear ?"
" O—h "' quo' Meg.   " A weel," quo' Watt?
" Farewell ! faith I'll try the so[ ]."
"Ostand still," quo Meg, and grat aye. .
" Ony, eny way ye please,"

Maggy syne, because he prest her.
Swore to a' thing owre again:
Watty lap, and danced, and kist her ;
Wow ! but he was wondrous fain.
Down he threw his staff victorious:
Affgaed bonnet, claes, and shoen.
Syne below the blankets, gloriousa,
Held  anither Hinney- MoonWOMANS   PRIDE.

You  men and you wives lend an ear to my  song.
I warrnt 'twill please you and not keep you long.
Indeed It's no joke but the truth I declare,
 It's concerning your wives a trimming of their hair.
CHORUS.-Fal de ral de.

In morning and evening as you walk through the street

Those fine dandy wives yon are sure for to meet,

With their false curls around their heads, and  you but

them twig,
And they hang down their faces like a monkey's wig.

When dinner is over to the glass they repair.
For their time is all taken up in dressing of their hair,
With their false silly curls their faces they do hide,
And they wink at the men as they pass by their side.

There is the shopkeeper's daughter to market does go,
With their fine dandy heads and their caps full of bows,
So  grand you would think they were noblemen's wives,
And they stink with  pride with baskets by their sides.

Fine veils they must have for to make them look big,
Like a large cabbage net spread all over their wig,
With their bracelets and beads and fine bosom pins.
And they are all wore on purpose to gain a young man.

There is the farmer's daughter to market does ride,
On an old galloway with the butter by their side,
For the land is so high and the corn is so low,
Instead of learning music to milking they must go.

There is the frisky old wives we must bring them in,

For to look at a man they almost think it a sin.

with their false dandy curls round their brows they do

plat.
And the hair of their heads is as gray as a cat.

So young men be careful in choosing of your wives,
And never take one that is fond of pride,
for dressing of their hair and curling of their wig,
It will rob you of your dinner and the price of your pig.

Robt. Mclntosh Pirnter.   96 King Street Calton.Female Rambling Sailor.

Come all you people far an near,
And listen to my ditty.
At Gravesend lived a maiden fair,
Who was both young and pretty,
Her love he was press'd away,
And drowned in a foreign sea
Which caus'd this maiden for to say,
I'll be a female sailor.
This maiden she was resolved to go
Across the foaming ocean,
She was resolved to let them know,
How she can gain promotion,[
With jacket blue and trowsers white'
Just like a sailor neat and tight,
The sea it was the heart's delight
Of the rambling female sailor.
Like a sailor true she went on board,
All for to do her duty,
She was always ready at a call,
This maid the queen of beauty.
When in a calm this damsel young
Would charm the sailors with her tongue
As she walk'd the decks and sweetly sung,
The rambling female sailor.
When in the storm upon the sea,
Her mind as calm as calm could be,
She loved her occupation,
From stem to stern she'd boldly go,
She braved all dangers, feared no foe,
But soon you'll hear the overthrow
Of the rambling female sailor.
This maiden gay did a wager lay
She would go aloft with any,
And up aloft she straight did go,
 Where times she had been many.
This maiden bold, oh ! sad to tell,
She missed her hold and down she fell
And calmly bid this world farewell.
Did the female sailor bold a
This maiden guy did fade away,
Is Just like a drooping willow,
Which made the sailors sigh and sea
Farewell, young faithful Willy.
When her  snow-white breasts in sight came
She proved to be a female frame,
And Rebecca Young it was the name
Of the rambling female sailor.
May willows wave all round her grave,
And round it laurels planted;
May roses sweet grow at the feet
Of one who was undaunted.
May a marble stone be inscribed upon,
Near here lies one so lately gone,
A maiden fair as sun shone on-
The rambling female sailor.
So all young men and maidens around
Come listen to my story,
Her body is anchored to the ground,
On the river Thames she was known Well-
Few sailors could with her excell-
The tear let fall as the fate you tell
Of the rambling female sailor.

Dandy Husband.

Come all you married women whoever that you oe,
Likewise all you that's single and listen unto me,
I've got a dandy husband the truth I will unfold,
You'll own he is a dandy man when his history is told,

                                   CHORUS.

Young women all take my advice,
And mark what I do say,
And if you wed a dandy man,
You'll sure rue the day.

When I was twenty years of age a courting I did go,
Until a dandy barber's clerk did fill my heart with woe.
His mouth is like a turnpike gate his nose a yard and half
And if you saw his handsome less I'm sure they'd make
elaugh.

He got up one morning all by his own desire,
My leghorn bonnet and my cap he took to light the fire. 
He took the tea things off the shelf for to clean off the dust
He wash'd them in  the chamber pot and dried them on
his shirt.

It was last Christmas,as true as I'm a sinner,
He said he'd stop at home all for to cook the dinner,
He took the plumbs and all the fat and mix'd them in his
bat,
And on the fire I do declare the rogue he boil d he cat.

He went one day indeed all for to buy a fowl,
He bought a hare I do declare, a  magpie and an owl,
He put them in the pot to boil tied with a dirty rope,'
Boil'd them with guts and feathers small and said they
were nice broth.

I thought a nice sweet pudding to dinner we should have
And as he stopt at home that day to cook it he did crave,
He put it in the pot to boil tied in a dirty sack,
And in it put his shaving box and half a pound of soap.

It's through the streets we walked arm and arm together,
It very fast began to freeze, he said it was rainy weather.
If he meets a coal cart he says it is a gig,
He cannot tell I do declare a dookie from a pig.

Is there a woman in the town can match the dandyman
He is a dirty rogue and lazy fool, it's nothing but the truth
If I had two I'd give the devil one to come and fetch them
both.
I wish my dandy husband was in the new police
And I was married to a sweep, O I would bless the day
To see' my dandy husband sent off to Botany Bay.

Old Mill Stream.

Is this the old mill stream, that ten years ago,
Was so fast in its current, so oure in its flow?
Whose musical waters would ripple and shine,
Like the glorious dash of a miniature rbine,
Can this be its bed, I remember it well, 
When it sparkeled like silver through meadow and dell, 
                                        Is this the old mill stream, &c.
And is this the old miller's house, peaceful abode,
Whose flower turned porch drew all eyes from the  road.
Where roses and jesmines embowered the door
That never shut to the way-worn or poor.
The miller, God bless him, oft gave us a dance,
And led off the ball with his soul in glance.
			Is this the old mill stream, &c.
The old mill is in ruins,and no welcome sound
In the mastiffs quick bark, or the wheel dashing round;
The house too is forgotton and left to decay,
And the miller long dead, all I loved passed away'
This plain place of childhood is graven in my heart
In rare paradise colours that now must depart,
The old water mill's gone, this fair vision is fled;
And I wept on its wreck as I do for the dead.
			1st    sthe old mill stream,&c,

Braes o' Gleniffer

Keen blawst he wind o'er the braes o' Gleniffer.
The auld castle's turrents are covered wi' snew;
How changed frae the time when I met wi' my lover,
Amang the broom bushes by Stanley's green shaw
The wild flowers o' simmer were spread a' sae bonnie.
The mavis sang sweet frae the green barken tree;
But far to the camp they hae marched my dear Johnnie,
And now it is winter wi' nature and me.

Then ilk thing around us was blithesome and cheerie,
Then ilk thing around us was bonnie and braw;
Now nathing is heard but the wind whistling drearie,
And nathing is seen but the wide spreading snaw.
The trees are a' bare,and the birds mute and dowie,
They shake the cauld drift frae their wings as they flee
And chirp out their plaints seeming wae for my Jennie,
'Tis winter wi' them, and tis winter wi' me.
You cauldsleety cloud skifs alang the black mountain,
And shakes the dark firs on the steep rocky brae,
While down the deep glen brawls the snaw-flooded
mountain,
That murmured sae sweetly to my laddie and me.
Its no its loud roar, on the wint'ry winds swellin',
It's no the could blast brings the tear i' my e'e ;
For, O ! gin I saw but my bonny Scots callan,
The dark days o' winter were simmer to meNoneThe RAKE in Fetters:

OR,    THE

Marriage Mouse Trap.



OF all the simple Things I know,
To rub o'er a whimsical Life,
There's ne'r a Folly half so true,
As that very bad Bargain a Wife:
'Tis like a Mouse in a Trap,
Or Vermin catcht in a Gin;
We sweat, we fret, and strive to escape;
Then curse the sad Hour we came in.

I I.

I whor'd, I drank, I play'd the Fool,

With a thousand mad Frolicks more;

I rov'd, I rang'd, despis'd all Rule ;

But I never was marry'd before.

It was the worst Fate cou'd ensue ;

I'm meu'd in a smoaky House:

I us'd to top a Bottle or two,

But now drink small Beer with my Spouse,

III.

My darling Freedom crown'd my Joys,
I never was vext in my Way:
But now, if I cross her Will, her Voice
Makes my Lodging too hot for my stay.
Like a Fox that is hamper'd, in vain
I gnaw out my Heart and my Soul;
Run to and fro the Length of my Chain,

Then forc'd to creep  in to my Hole.



FINIS.The Contract of Enster,

On July just upon the penult day,
which is the second Moneth next to May.
It is agreed and finally Contracted,
and all the Parties living yet that spake it,
Between two Graceless Persons of Renoune,
None more Infamous dwelling in the Town,
The one a silly Raggit Sutor Man,
Servitor to Thomas Ferguson who can,

Make Boots and Shoone, a Shoe maker to Craft,
he lives above  the Thieves hole in the last.
The other She's no cast away nor Bissie,
but the good Daughter of old Andrew Bizie,
Thir, parties both are finally content
in one advice and Mutual consent,
To Solemnize in every point and Jott,
of Marriage the holy Band and knot,

In Face and presence of the Hally Kirk,
Because none of the two has will to work,
And when they have no will to work ye ken,
it is hy  time that they were married then,
To this effect the foresaid Andrew Bizie,
has  promised the Fellow with the Hissie.
An under mark and that to be well pay'd,
yea and a ---- is that it be delayed,

At  Martinmass  withoutten longer tarry,
or sooner if the parties please to Marrie,
And for the foresaid under mark and score,
the Silly Sutor is content therefore.
That after the Death and the decease of his Wife,
Andrew shall bruike the hail during his Life,
And is he Chance to die as pleases God,
the foresaid Sutor shall have all thats o'd.

For more Assurance they are  contented that
thir presents be Insert and Regestrat,
Into our Stubborn Lords Book o're the water
or Commissar Books of St Andrews with a clatter
Or in the  Books of Enster Easter or, Waster,
what Clerk in Fife can bind the Fellows faster,
To have the Force and strength of an Decreet,
of either of the Judges they think meet,

That Letters both of Doding and of  Horning,
may pass hearon without all let or Scorning.
Thir presents were written the foresaid day and year,
before thir Witless Witnesses Witnessing here,
John Jocobisty in the Shaddow Shaw, 
and Peter Pickthank in the Paddeck Raw
And Symon Sidebags in the Slypan Stank,
with Friar Fuck-dock in the Pryor Bank,

With diverse others honest Men well kend,
except my sell, when this Contract was Pen'd.

Ita est ego Joannes Moravius Bublicus, in Premiffis re-
quifitus, de mendato Dict Thom & Ferguson & And
drea  ssie,& reliquorum Personarum. Contractan: Scri-
bere Nescian: ut asseruere Testamentum his meis Sig-
no, & Subscriptione manualibus.

John Jacobist, Witless.
Peter Pickthank Witless:
Fiar Fuckdock, Witless;
Symen Sidebags, Witless,
I my self, Witless.Mrs. M'Leod's last  Farewel to John Gibson.
                             
M'Leod,

NOW John what makes theelook so shan
Brush up and look couragious, Man.
We have had mony a Cog between us,
E'en fan De'el a Saul has seen us,
And since that nearest Friends must part,	
Here's to your Health wi' a' my Heart,
Sae take your Scuds, John, and be merry.
And drink a Health to Brother Currie,
And seeing we must part belyve,
Sae lang's together, let's be blyth.

                  John.

Waes me,blyth how can I be,
When I think on yon ugly Tree,
And how 'Dagleish that soul-thumb'd Limmer,
With nailing Lug too to the Timmer,
Where with my Billet on my Breast,
Must stand  as grave's a new made Priest,
And a' for being a  Comerade            
To you, a dam'd eternal Jade,
Who always wrought the Devil's Pleasure,
If thereby ye could mend your Treasure,
Now I'm oblig'd to take a Scoup,
Wi' Hangy's Foot into my Doup.
Maun part wi' Wife an' a' my Childer,
And a' for Greed of getting Siller,
And dare not come within the Bow,
Altho' 't would vantage me a Cow.
My Malison on your curs'd Face,
Thats makes me suffer this Disgrace,
By Forgery ye more did cheat,
Than in a Twelve-month I'd repeat.

M'Leod,

But John, pray whence comea' this balding,
Fy hold your Peace Man,with your scaulding ;
And e'en keep your self content,
'Tis after Time, now to repent.
For Fifty Pounds, I'd stand your Caution,
That I were but in your Condition.      
Quietly I'd be thankful Johnr
To stand a Hail Day on the Tron,
Were I but sure to pass for that,
I would thank Heaven for my Fate.
Your Sheverings, John, I shall repay,
A Pair of Shammy Gloves ye's hae.    
And for your Napken, a Half Mantu
Apron to be your Pock-mantn.
And for your Tows, my Apron-strings,
Take it down there, where it hings,
And tho' that I die in a Teather,                  
Ye'll mind, that we forg'd Bills together.

John,

I thank you for your Complement,
And now advise you to repent;           
For it is best to make Consession,
And not pretend to forge Remission.
Lest old Lucky-Ded deceive you,
And for your Pains, in Collops rive you.
Make hast then, and take your Noggan,
'Tis near the Time that I were jogging.

M'Leod,

Your Health John, and  farwel to you,

John,

Mony Thanks, and Deil be wi' you.H Y M N

To the Victory in

SCOTLAND

I sing the Praise of Heros brave
Whose Warlike Merit Conquest gave,
And scorn'd to trample on a Foe,
But beat them first, then let them go:
after a Battle sharp and bloody,         
Beyond the reach of Humane Study,
Obtain'd between strong Rocks & Trenches,
By dint of Sword, and vast expences,
'Gainst sturdy Scots, and Spaniards proud,
A, Victory most Men allow'd.
Where aft their Foes were quite confounded
While Cannons roard and Trumpets founded.
B at hear oc there & God knows whither,
Loll in a Fog, in Sun-shine Weather :
Confusion every where proclaim'd
Such wonders which can ne'er be nam'd.
Abundance slain, which some call dead,
Who in the fright rose up and fled
More stranger yet if News be right,
The fray did last from five till Night,
And those who brought the Tidings hither,
Say Dead and Living fled together.
Nay perfect Miracles abounded,
The dead Men rise and kill'd the wounded
Yet when the Battle it was done,
Theree "was nor found so  much as one
Nor none can tell which way they'r gane.
No Antient History can declare,
Such Actions in the Feats-of War,
Great Wills, and Carpenter at Precision,
Might here have learnt a milder Lesson:
For tho' the Victory  was compleat,
Both Dead and Living safe retreat.

Here was no tricking feigned Pardon
Which "Consequences seldom heard on:
Deluding Men and when that's done;
Hang, Goal, and Banish every one.
When in this fierce and bloody Fray,
Our Foes had leave to march away:
Without the loss of Man or Gun,
Such generous Favours feldom done,"
-Such Mercy in this Fight was shown,
We sav'd Men's Lives and losl our own,    
A Victory which no Age can show
To let both Dead and Living go:
Yet notwithstanding Highland Clans,
Thcse mighty Favours still withstands,
Reflecting  with their bold Bravadoes,
Our Men shott only at their Shadows.
And give  us Reasons very pat,
Bccause they sav'd their Lives by that:
Yet if Reports has not bely'd 'em,
As-Ballets came, they skip'd beside  em,
which is a Riddle hard and dark.
When not one Gunner hits a Mark;
I doubt they've learr'd the Magick Art,
And value not our Guns a Fart,
Or else the Skins of Highland Scots,
Are Proof against both Swords and,Shots.
Tho' this is strange, it seems too true,
Because none of their Men were flew,
And which our Reason most has shaken,
Not one poor single Rebel taker:
Three Hours beaten and none die,  
Yet no Man knows the Reason why,     
Tis very strange 'tween You and I,

LONDON  Printed by R.Thomas behind  the Royal Exchange.ARMS and the MAN, I sing.

A BALLAD.

I.

GOD prosper our King, and the King's noble Sons!
May their Praises refound from the Mouths of their Guns!
Till Rebellion and all civil Discord may cease,
And these Realms be restor'd to a flourishing Peace.

II.

How this War first begun, and the Progress 't has made,
Has never been sung, tho' 't has often been said ;
Yet great Deeds to record to great Poets belongs,
As Homer and Virgil set forth in their Songs.

III.

The Scots, as the Swiss, making Fighting a Trade,
(For ever betraying, for ever betray'd)
Like the Frogs, sick of Log, chufe a King of their own ;
'Twill ne'er out of the Flesh what is bred in the Bone.

IV.

From Rome a young Hero, well known, they invite
To accept of a Crown, which he claims as his Right ;
In City and Town they their Monarch proclaim,
And their old King and new King are one and the fame.

V.

When these Tidings reach'd England, three Chieftains they chose,
Rebellion to rout, and its Progress oppose.
But 1 st, 2d, and 3d, were all struck with Dismay;
Thrice happy the Man who could first run away.

VI.

Now great Preparations proclaim their great Fears ;
The Militia, the Dutch, the Troops raised by the Dears;
They associte, subscribe fast vote and address
For you know loyal Subjects can do nothing  lets.

VII.

Horse, Foot and Dragoons, from loft Flanders they Call,
With Hessians and Danes, and the Devil and all,
The Hunters and Rangers, led by Oglethorpe,
And the Church, at the Arse of the Bishop of York.

VIII.

And, pray, who so fit to lead forth this Parade,
As the Babe of Tangier, my old Grandmother Wade ?
Whose Cunning's so quick, but whose Motion's so slow,
That the Rebels march'd on, whilst he stuck in the Snow.

IX.

Poor London, alas! is scar'd out of its Wits,
With Arms, and Alarms! as fad Soldiers as Cits,
Sure of dying by Inches, whatever Cause thrives,
Since by parting with Money, they part with their Lives.

X.

But the Genius of Britain appears in the Duke,
Their Courage to raise, and their Fears to rebuke;
He march'd Day and Night till he got to the Rear,
And then sent us Word, He had nothing to fear.

XI.

All Night, under Arms, the brave Duke kept his Ground,
But the Devil a Rebel was there to be found ;
Then the Foot got on Horseback, the News give Account,
But that would not do, so the Horsemen dismount,

XII.

A fierce Fight then ensu'd by a Sort of Owl-Light,
Where none got the Day, because it was Night,
And so dark, that the Truth on't we never shall get,
Unless 'tis clear'd up by another Gazette.

[ To be continued. ']

The Blue Bonnets

Are over the Border,



Sung with great applause by Mr. BRAHAM, in all
	Places of Public Amusement.

Printed by T.BIRT,10,  Great St. Andrew-Street,    
wholesale and rettail,     seven Dials, London.
The Cheapest Printing  Office in  London for
Cards. Bills, &c.     " Hope  I  don't intrude" in
soliciting support—just "drop in" and try.

MARCH ! march ! Ettrick and Teviot-dale!
Why my lads dinna ye march forward in order?
March ! march ! Eskdale and Liddesdale !
All the blue bonnets are over the border!
	Many a banner spread,
	Flutters above your head,
Many acrest that is famous in story	
	Mount and make ready then,
	Sons of the mountain glen,
Fight for your King and the old Scottish border.
                                    March ! inarch ! &c,

Come from the hills where your hirsels are grazing,
Come from the glens of the buck and the roe,
Come to the crag where the beacon io blazing
Come with the buckler, the lance, and the How
	Trumpets are sounding,
	War-steeds are bounding,
Stand to your arms and march in good order.
	England shall many a day,
	Tell of the bloody fray,
When the blue bonnets came over the border.
			March I march ! &c.Flora's Lament  for her

CHARLIE.

It's you bonny banks, and yon bonny braes,
Whers the sun shines bright and bonny,
Where I and my true love went out for to gaze,
On the bonny, bonny banks of Benlomond.

It's you'll take the high road and I'll täke the low
And I'll be in Scotland before you,
For I and my true love shall never meet again,
On the bonny, bonny banks of Benlomond.

It's not for the hardships that I must endure,
Nor the leaving of Benlomond;
But it's for the leaving of my comrades all,
And the bonny lad that I love so dearly,

With his bonny laced shoes and his buckles  so
	clear,
And his plaid o'er his shoulders hung so rarely ;
One glance of his eye it would banish dull care,
So handsome was the look's of my Charlie.

But as long as I live and as long as I breath,
I will sing of his memory sairly;
My true love was taken by the arrows of death,
And now Flora does lament for her Charlie.

Printed and sold Wholesale,by Robt. M'Intosh,
Bookseller, Stationer, &c., 96 King St. Calton.
A good variety always on hand.  24 page His-
tories,Song Books, House-Lets, Window LabelsHAUGHS O'   CRUMDEL.

As I came in by Auchendown,
A little wee bit frae the town,
Unto the Highlands I was bound
To view the Haughs of Crumdel.
Sing tantaradel, tantaradel,
Unto the Highlands I was bound
To view the Haughs of Crumdel.

I met a man in tartan trews,
I speer'd at him what was the news,
Says he the Highland army rues
That e'er they came to Crumdel.

Lord Livingstone rode from Inverness
Our Highland lads for to distress;
And has brought us a' into disgrace
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

The English General he did say,
We'll give the Highland lads fair play;
We'll sound our trumpets and give huzza
And wauken them at Crumdel.

Says Livingstone, I hold it best
To catch them lurking in their nest;
The Highland lads we will distress,
And hough them down at Crumdel.

So they were in bed, Sir, every one,
When the English army on them came,
And a bloody battle soon began
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

The English horse they were so rude,
They bathed their hoofs in Higland blood
Our noble clans they firmly stood
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

But our noble clans they could not stay,
Wilt thou direct the nearest way?
Over the hills I'll go this day
And see the haughs of Crumdel.

Alas! my Lord you are not strong,
You've scarcely got two thousand men;
There is twenty thousand in the plain
Liesrank and file in Crumdel.

Says great Montrose, I will not stay,
So direct me the nearest way;
For ower the hills I'll go this day
And see the haughs of Crumdel.

They were at dinner every man,
When a great Montrose upon them came
And a second battle soon began
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

The Grants, M'Kenzies, and M'Kay,
As soon as Montrose they espy;
They stood and fought most manfully
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

The M'Donalds they returned again,
The Camerons did their standard join;
M'Intoshes played a bonny game
Upon the haughs of Crumnel.

The M Phersons fought like lions bold,
M'Gregors none could them control;
M'Lachlans fought like valiant souls
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

M'Leans, M'Dougals, and M'Neils,
So boldly as they took the field;
And made their enemies to yield
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

The Gordons boldly did advance,
The Frazers fought with sword and lanee,
The Grahams they made their heads to danoe
Upon the haughs of Crumdal.

The Royal Stewarts and Monroes,
So boldly as they faced their foes,
And brought them down by hands and blows
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

Out of twenty thousand Englishmen,
Five hundred fled to Aberdeen;
The rest of them they all lay slain.
Upon the haughs of Crumdel.

79S O  N  G.


T H E     

Gallant Admiral.

TUNE,—"Wha'll be King but Charlie."


Come awa, my gallant chield,
Ye canna come too early,
For Bruce o' Kennel's i' the field,
Keep back the Tory, Charlie. 

CHORUS.

Come quickly hither, gang round & gather,
Try the canrassing fairly,
Come, Electors a' thogither,
Whom should ye thoose but Charlie.

Bruce talks of independent mind,
And blaws his trumpet rarely,
But to reform was ne'er inclin'd,
As was our gallant Charlie.
Come quickly hither, &c.

For Charlie has  redeem'd his pledge,
Discharg'd his duties fairly,
Whom find we first upon the page
Of Patriots true, but Charlie ?
Come quickly hither, &c.

Electors a', except a few,
They vow baith late and early,
" To nane we'll gie our votes but you :
" Wha gae us votes but Charlie ?"
Come quickly hither, &c.

To soothe our hearts, the Corn Laws
Ye'll try to balance fairly ;
Let farmers, weavers, ane and a',
Have equal justice, Charlie.
Come quickly hither, &c.

We trust ye'll freedom gie the slave,
And break his chains right early ;
Give honours due unto the brave,
Rewarding merit, Charlie,
Come quickly hither, &c.

Let Monop'lies be done awa,
And let our Trade gang fairly,
Repealing each Oppressive Law,
That clogs our Commerce, Charlie,
Come quickly hither, &c.

Ye ken the Bishops' pomp and pride,
Then Tithes oppress us sairly,
Just as they preach let them be paid,
With mod'rate stipends, Charlie.
     Come quickly hither, &c.

Our Mother Church in Scotia's land,
Our Fathers bought so dearly,
From iron grasp of Patrons' hand,
Try and relieve her, Charlie.
Come quickly hither, &c.

O ! could I raise a loftier strain,
And sing it sweet and clearly,
I'd praise thy Father's worthy name,
Walk in his footsteps Charlie.

                        CHORUS.

Come quickly hither, gang round & gather,
Try the canvassing fairly,
 Come, Electors a' thegither,
Whom should ye choose but Charlie.The pretended Prince of Wales's New
Exercise of the SCOTCH Lang Goon.

Tak  care on your sell, sir, noow,

Jeen your Speun Haund to your Lang Goon.
Hod him up, Sir.
Hod him doown the Speun Seede, hod him down noow.
Opin your Kittle, Sir.

         Opin you Kittle wi' the Baw of your Speun Thumb.
Haundle your Deuste Box.
Caust the Black Sawt int' your Kittle, Sir.
Hod up your Lang Goon.

Blaw off your Loose Deuste,  [au Mukle Blawste, Mon.
Hod your Lang Goon doown to your Cogue Seede.
Haundle your Deuste-Box, Sir.
Tak his Bonnit in your Teeth.
Poo her hinder End awaw Mon.
Caust your Black Sawt int' her Wem, Sir.
Caust a Cogle intull her Wem.
Tak the Lunt from your Bonnit.
Stop it in her Moo.
Grip your Lang Wond.
Lug him owte.
Hod him up, Sir.
Short'n't to a Waw-bitanent your Reeght Pop.
Stuck it in her Moo.
Wod it doown in the Deel's Naume, Mon.
Lug out your Lang Wond, Sir.
Short'n't in you Speun Haund anent your Reeght Pop,
Your Lang Wond intull its Hoose now.
Hod up your Lang Goon, Sir.
Band doown your Goose-Crag, and hod him owte.
Sat him to your Shouder.
Lat flee in the Deel's Naume, Mon.                       (awltogether.
Hod up your Lang Goon, and hod him doown to the Cogue Seede
Your Speun Haund to your Mukle Whuniard, Sir.
Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard.
Stop your Mukle Whuniard intull the Moo of your Lang Goon.
Hod up your Lang Goon.   Hod him up at me, Sir.
Doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To the Speun Hand down wi' your Lang Goon.
Stell to the Speun Haund doown wi' himageen. Sir.
To the Speun Hand, yit Mon, doown wi'you Lang Goon.
Noow at me, doown wi' him ageen.
Sat your Fauce where your Aurse stonds, and be domn'd t' ye.
Noow at me, doow wi' him ageen.
Noow to the Cogue Haund doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To John-a-Groats Hoose Mon, doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To John-a-Groats Peas-Stauck, doown wi' your Lang Goon.
Noow at me, doown wi' him ageen, Sir.
Ha' ye forgot Mon what I toud ye ?
Put your Fauce where your Aurse stonds, and be Domn'd t'  ye.
Noow at me, hod him up and hod him doown to the Cogue Seede
Your Speun Haund to your Mukle Whuniard, Sir.    (aw together
Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard.
Your Mukle Whuniard intull his Hoose noow,
Take your Lang Goon to your Speun Feut, Sir.
Down wi't' doown to Gods coad Grunt Mon.
Lat ge your Lang Goon.   Upaw together.
To the Speun Haund aboot, Sir.
Gang your waw in the Deel's Naume t' ye.
Noow runawe in snarle ageen Bonee Lodds.

F  I  N  I  S.THE

TARTAN PLAIDY.

WHEN Charlie first cam' to the north,
Wi' the manly looks o' a highland laddie,
Mov'd every true Scotch heart to warm
To guard the lad wi' the Tartan Plaidy.

But when King Geordie heard o' this,
That he was south to heir his daddy,
He sent Sir John Cope to the north
To catch the lad wi' the Tartan Plaidy.

But when he came to Inverness,
They told him Charlie was south already,
Most likely he has conquer'd all
By virtue o' the Tartan Plaidy.

But when Cope came to Aberdeen,
The English fleet was lying ready,
To carry them over to Edinburgh town,
To catch the lad wi' the Tartan Plaidy.

In Prestonpans they form'd their clans,
Regarding neither babe nor daddy;
Our noble Prince led on the front.
For he was not asham'd to show his Plaidy.

Then Sir John Cope address'd his men,
Saying, " If you will be stern and steady,
Thirty thousand pounds I'll give,
To catch the lad wi' the Tartan Plaidy."

Then our Noble Prince address'd his men,
Saying, " If you will he stern and steady,
I'll set you down and your nation free,
If you'll fight wi' me and keep my Plaidy."

Then they drew up and did draw up,
Five hundred men both stout and ready,
Like the wind from Skey they made them fly,
At every shake o' the Tartan Plaidy.

The Duke of Perth stood on the right,
The bold Munro and brave Glengarry ;
from the Isle o' Skey the brave Lochiel,
Maclaren's brave and bold Macready.

A painted room and silken bed
Wad hardly serve the German lairdie ;
But a far better Prince than e'er he was,
Lay amang the heather wi' his Tartan Plaidy.THE   LANDING OF

Royal Charlie.

Printed by T. BIRT,10,  Great St. Andrew-Street
Whole sale and retail,    Seven Dials, London.

Country Orders punctually attended to.
Every description of Printing on reasonable terms.
Children's Books, Battledores, Pictures, &c.

A ROUSE ! arouse ! ilk kilted clan,
Let Highland  hearts lead on the van,
Forward wi' her dirk in hand,
To fight for royal Charlie.

Welcome, Charlie, o'er the main, 
The Highland hills are a' your ain,
Welcome to your ain again,
Welcome, royal Charlie.

Auld Scotia's sons 'mong Highland hills,
Can nobly brave the face o' ills ;
For kindred fire ilk bosom fills,
At sight o' royal Charlie.
		Welcome, Charlie, &c,

Her ancient Thistle wags her pow,
And proudly wags o'er dale and known,
To her the oath and sacred row,
We'll live or die wi' Charlie.
		Welcome, Charlie, &c.

Rejoiced to think nae foreign weed
Shall trample on her hardy seed,
For weel she kens her sons will bleed,
Or fix his throne right fairly.
		Welcome, Charlie, &c.

Among the wilds o' Caledon,
Breathes there a base degenerate son,
Who would not to his standard run.
And rally round Prince Charlie.
		Welcome,Charlie, &c.

Then let the flowing quench go round,
And boldly bid the pibrock sound,
Till every glen and rock resound,
The name o' royal Charlie.
		Welcome, Charlie, &c,English, Irish, Scotchman.

PRICE ONE PENNY
This splendid song can only be had in the
Poet's Box, 6 St. Andrews Lane, Glasgow

Air--Push about the Jorum.

My father was an Irishman,
And born in sweet Kilkenny,
My mother was in England born,
In Lincolnshire so funny ;
In Scotland they were put to bed,
Nine months ere they saw me, sir,
And as for Ireland home they sailed,
Myself was born at sea, sir.

My country so, I cannot know,
So comical s my lot man,
I'll prove myself where'er I go,
An English Irish Scotchman.

English independance with
My mother's milk imbibed sir,
And gen'rous Irish principle,
My father's rules prescribed, sir;
'Ere I was born, I got a stock
Of honest Scottish pride, too—
My heart's as free as my native sea,
For friendship just as wide too.

A soldier marshalled in the ranks,
'Twas on a grand review day,
Our captain stepped up to me—
What countryman are you, pray ?
What countryman—why should you know,
D'ye think it values much, man ?
With you I'll go to fight the foe,
Or Spaniard, French, or Dutchman.

From war returned, and having saved
A competence for life, sir,
To share it and enjoy it too,
I needs must take a wife sir;
Your parish, friend, I first must know,
The cautious parson cried sir,
Oh ! never mind, to him I said,
My parish pays no tithe, sir.

May English, Irish, Scottish hearts,
Be linkedto one another;
The shamrock, rose, and thistle too,
Be blended all together.
May Victoria's kingdom never fall,
Supported long by such men ;
And may her subjects, one and all,
Be Irish English Scotchmen.

Saturday, April 26.HUZZA FOR REFORM

AND  THE

Garland of Green !

A NEW SONG.

TUNE—Sprig of Shillelah.

Let them boast of the Shamrock, the Thistle, and Rose,
I sing of what's fairer then any of those—
Of the cause of Reform and the Garland of Green :

For green is the colour that gladdens the sight,
'Tis the Livery of Nature—'tis Aytoun's delight,
And long may that colour triumphant adorn,
The HERO by whom 'tis so worthily worn,
Then Huzza for Reform and the Garland the Green !



The Whigs they may swagger in Yellow and Blue,
But we'll give them a mouthful that's hard for to chew.
If they touch but a leaf of our Garland of Green.

And before they have done with that morsel so tough,
their hopes will be withered and yellow enough,
While by each true Reformer forever forsook,
I hardly need tell you how blue they  will look,
While fieshly shall flourish the Garland of Green.



No wonder at Aytoun they spitefully rail,
Seeing how he's man on a popular Scale,
A friend of Reform and the Garland of Green.

They know he's determined their tricks to expose,
As all his past conduct sufficiently shows ;
And that in the great contest he never will yield,
But will kick each Whig-Pensioner out of the field,
In the cause of Reform and the Garland of Green.

Aberomnbie, the place-man,—deny it who dare—
The brand of corruption forever must wear,
While Aytoun shall triumph in Garland of Green.

He may talk very  big of Reform to be sure,
But will any true Scotchman one moment endure,
While he wrings from the poor his two thousand a-year,
That his beggarly face should be ever seen here,
Where Reformers are crown'd with the garland of green

Then there's Jeffrey who's lately deserted the cause,
And by what he now calls "his unfortunate clause,"
Has insulted each Wend of the Garland of Green.

His friends may attempt the offence to explain,
But every attempt only fixes the stain;
So that now he has brought himself almost as low
As when laid on his back by the hard-hitting FOE
Of the cause of Reform and the Garland of Green.

Ye gallant Reformers, our Brethern of Leith,
Tell Bottom to chuse some appropriate wreath,
More fitting for him then the Garland of Green!



And if Bottom object to this good humoured wipe,
He knows the old proverb—"Put that in your PIPE"—
For a joke's but a joke, and to me it is clear,
We've our right to a laugh for six hundred a-year—
Let them laugh if they can at the Garland of Green.

But laughing and joking at present apart,
Let all true Reformers unite hand and heart
In the glorious cause of the Garland of Green.

Let every true Briton re-echo the song,
And the true sons of Erin be first in the throng ;
And then let Whig-Pensioners talk as they may,
Our own gallant AYTOUN shall carry the day,
So Huzza for Reform and the Garland of Green !MARY NEIL.


I am a bold undaunted youth my name  is John M' Cann,
I am a native of Donegal, was bred near sweet Strabane;
For the stealing of an heiress, I lie in Lifford jail-
Her father vow'd he'd hang me for stealing Mary Neil,

While in strong irons I lay bound my love sent word to me,
Don't fear my father's anger, I'll try to set you free;
She made her father give consent, to let me out on bail,  
And I was to stand my trial, for stealing Mary Neil.

Her father kept her close confined, fearing I would her see,
And at the assizes she was bound to appear against me;
It was in her father's absence, to the garden, she would steal;
Said I one day I'll try to see my charming Mary Neil.

Having heard her father was from home upon a summer day,
I went behind the garden hedge, and there in ambush lay,
The blackbird and the nightingale did echo through the vale,
And there by chance once more I spied my charming Mary Neil.

We sat upon a flowery bank, for to discourse awhile,
Says she my dear you need not fear, I'll free you from exile ;
For the Charles Douglas is ready, from Derry now to sail,
So off to Quebec, come with me my charming Mary Neil.

She gave consent so back she went and stole out her best clothes
And to no person in the house, her mind she did disclose ;
Unknown to me £500, from her father she did steal,
And that was twice I did elope, with my charming Mary Neil

A coach was got in readiness, for Derry town to go,
And we bribed the coach driver, to let no person know ;
He told us the secret, he never would reveal,
So now I land in Derry town, with my dear Mary Neil.

We to brave Captain M'Nealy, our passage money paid,
And for two days in Derry town, we under cover staid ;
We joined our hands in wedlock bands, before we did set sail,
Her father's wrath I valued not, I got my Mary Neil. 

While o'er the proud and swelling seas our ship did gently glide
While on the passage to Quebec, six in the measles died ;
Until we came to Cape Wrath Head, we had no cause to wail,
But at Gaspar Bay I thought that day I'd lost my Mary Neil

On the afternoon of the 9th June, a thick fog it came on,
The captain cries look out my boys, I fear we are all gone ;
The vessel on a sandbank was drifted by the gale,
And 49 were washed overboard, with them went Mary Neil,

The ship became a total wreck, 100 miles from shore,
The cries of wives and children, did grieve my heart full sore,
Many who left their native home, their hard part to bewail,
When I plunged into the deep and saved my Mary Neil.

'Twas with the help of the crew we 500 lives did save,
The other 49 met with a watery grave,
The hardships that we did endure I cannot half reveal;
Content am I since I enjoy my charming Mary Neil.

Her father wrote a letter, and these words it did contain,
Back again to your native shore if you return again,
I'll make you heir of all I have, as I am old and frail,
So here you'll live in splendour, with your charming Mary Neil

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY,Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 11 King Street, (City), Glasgow. Upwards of
5,000 different sorts always on hand also, a great variety of
Picture Books, Song Books, Histories, &c. Shops and Haw-
kers supplied on Liberal Terms.

15                                        Pat M'Guire.

Ye Muses nine with me combine,
Assist my slender quill,
I hope you'll pay attention,
To every line I fill; 
My name is Pat M'Guire,
How can I it conceal,
By the cruelty of Mary Caze,
I lie in Liftord Jail.
My parents reared me tenderly,
And very well it's known,
They gave me education,
Fitting for the Church of Rome-
They thought they would have com-
With me in future days,        [fort,
But now I lie in irons,
For cruel Mary Caze,
When I came fora College,
My parents for to see,
She'd done her whole endeavour
To prove ray destiny.
She says, young Pat M' Guire,
Come join in wedlock binds,
Agree with me and marry me,
Or leave your native land.
The answer that I made to her,
My parents would me blame,
Besides it would be a great disgrace,
And not to be ordained.
For in this holy order
I mean to lead my life;
So Mary, dear, don't persevere,
I'll never wed a wife.
Early on Monday morning,
Before the sun did rise,
The eavalry surrounded me,
Unto my great suprise ;
The Captain says,  M' Guire,
Rise up and do not fail.
For I must do my duty,
You are bound for Lifford Jail
When I saw my committal.
A letter I did send
Unto Captain Hamilton,
I knew he'd be my friend.
And when he read the letter,
An answer he sent down,
He says I'll bail M'Guire,
Should I lose ten thousand pounds.
Its when my aged father
This answer he received,
He says, my child, and only son,
Be not the least dismay'd ;
For I have money plenty,
And God will be your friend,
And shiels, that noble counsellor,
On your life you may depend.
Now, to conclude and finish,
To let the world see,
In spite of all her interest,
The Jury set me free.
They set me out of Lifford Jail,
With honour I got home,
And hooes to be member                  
of the holy Church of Rome.PAT  M'GUIRE

Ye Muses nine with me combine, assist my slender quill,
And my weary notions at every line     fill,
My name is Pat M'Guire how can I coneeal,
By the cruelties of Mary Keys I lie in Lifford Jail.

My parents loved me tenderly, and very well it's known,
Gave me an education fit for the Church of Rome ;
They thought for to have comfort with me in future days,
But now I lie in irons by cruel Mary Keys.

When I came from  the village ray parents for to see,
She did her whole endeavour to prove my destiny,
She says young Pat M'Guire come join in wedlocks band,
You must agree and wed with me or quit your native land.

If I were to wed with you my parents would me blame,
Besides it would be a disgrace and not to be ordained,
For in this holy order I mean to lead my life,
So Mary dear don't persevere for I'll never wed a wife.

It was on a Sunday morning before the sun did rise,
The cavalry surrounded me and to my great surprise
The Captain says M' Guire get up and do not fail,
For I must do my duty—you are bound for Lifford Jail.

When I read my committal a letter I did send,
Straight unto Captain Hamilton—I know he'd me befriend,
When he received this letter an answer he sent down,
That he would bail  M'Guire  should it cost one thousand
pounds.

When my aged father this answer did receive.
He says my child and loving son don't be the least dismayed,
For I have money plenty, and God will be your friend,
On Shell that noble counsellor, your life you may depend.

Now to conclude and make an end and let the world see,
In spite of all her interest the jury set me free;
They freed me out of Lifford Jail with honour I go home,
And hopes to be a member into the Church of Rome.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate,) Glas-
gow. Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on hand;
also, a great variety of Picture-Books, Song-Books,
Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers supplied on
Liberal Terms.

Hand-Bills, Circulars, Invoices, Business and Fancy
Cards, Large Posting Bills, Society Articles, Pamph-
lets, &  Letter-Press Printing of every description,
neatly and expeditiously executed on Moderate Terms.

Printing Office, 28 Nelson Street and 56 Trongate.SHIEL'S

RIGHTS   OF   MAN.

I speak in candour, one night in slumber,
My mind did wander near to Athlone,
The centre station of this Irish nation,
Where a congregation unto me was shown.
Beyond my counting, upon a mountain.
Near to a fountain that clearly ran ;
I seem to tremble, I'll not dissemble,
As they assembled for the Rights of Man.

All clad in green there I thought I seen
A virtuous queen, that was grave and old,
Saying, children dear, now do not fear,
But come and hear what I will unfold.
This fertile country near seven centuries,
Since Strongbow's entry upon our land,
Has been kept under by foes unnumbered,
And always plundered of the Rights of Man.

My cause you chided, you so derided,
When divided, alas ! you know,
All in disorder round Erin's border,
Strife, grief, and murder, hath laid you low.
Let each communion detest disunion,
In love and union join hand in hand,
And believe in Granua, that proud Britannia
No more shall rob you of the Rights of Man.

Through the azure sky, I then did spy
A man to fly and for to descend,
And straightway come down upon the ground,
Where Erin round her had her bosom friends,
His dazzling mitre and cross was brighter
Than stars by night, or the mid-day sun;
In accents rare, I do declare,
He prayed success to the Rights of Man.

When prayer was erded, he condescended
His hand to lend it in freedom's cause,
He says I'll lead you, and always aid you,
And still persuade you to Christian laws,
When in affliction, or sad restriction,
My benediction with uplifted hand,
I here explain it, you shall obtain it,
And surely gain it with tho Rights of Man.

For their inspection and clear direction,
And grand discretion, the three leaved plant,
He elevated and consecrated,
And these repeated; do not recant—
But still look to it, and still review it,
Let none subdue it—it is three in one,
To prove its unity in that community,
That holds lenity the Rights of Man.

He straightway blessed, and then caressed,
But still impressed them to persevere,
When a rustling wind that seemd quite unkind,
Wafted this liquid through the ambient air;
Then Granua fluttered, and these words uttered,
I'll break your fetters before it's long,
Then away ho flew and bade them adieu,
Saying, I'll be true to the Rights of Man.

When the population or congregation,
In exultation agreed to part,
Shook hands like brothers, and kissed each other,
While friendship smothered each Irish heart,
They seperated, all animated,
All elevated at what went on,
As day was breaking, and poor Shiel's awaking,
Crying, " Still be true to the Rights of Man."

PRICE ONE PENNY.THE              

Four-Leaved Shamrock.

PRICE ONE PENNY

This is supposed to be one of Shields' pro-
ductions, and the Poet in offering it to the
public has every confidence that it will be a
tangible treat ; the Poet is certain that it is
one of the finest effusions extant, and from
his long experience, he would invite all lovers
of song and music to come and judge for
themselves by procuring copies, which can
only be had in the Poet's Box, 6 St. Andrew's
Lane, Gallowgate, Glasgow.

Air— Original.

I'll seek a four-leaved shamrock;
In all the fairy dells,
And if I find the charmed leaf
Oh, how I'll weave my spells!
I would not waste my magic might,
On diamond, pearl, or gold;
For treasure tires the weary sense,
Such triumph is but cold ;
But I will play the enchanter's part,
In casting bliss around;
Oh, not a tear nor aching heart,
Should in the world be found.

To worth, I would give honour,
I'd dry the mourner's tears,
And to the pallid lip recall
The smile of happier years ;
And hearts that had been long estranged,
And friends that had grown cold,
Should meet again like parted streams,
And mingle as of old.
		Oh, thus I'd play, &c,

The heart that had been, mourning,
O'er vanished dreams of love,
Should see them all returning
Like Noah's faithful dove ;
And hope should launch her blessed bark.
On sorrow's darkening sea,
And misery's children have an ark,
And saved from sinking be.
		Oh, thus I'd play, &c.THE HARP THAT ONCE.

Through Tara's Halls,

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the Poet's Box, [              ], Glasgow.

TUNE.—Original.

The harp that once through Tara's hall
The soul of music shed,
Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls,
As if that soul were fled.
So sleeps the pride of former days,
So glory's thrill is o'er,
And hearts that once beat high for praise,
Now feel that pulse no more.

No more to chiefs and ladies bright
The harp of Tara swells,
The chord alone that breaks at night,
Its tale of ruin tells.
Thus freedom now so seldom wakes,
The only throb she gives,
Is when some heart indignant breaks.
To show that still she lives.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

Cock-tail Joe				Mantle so green
Chapel meeting of Swanlinbar		Margaret and the min ter
Dolly Daisy				My stick
Dutchman's little dog			Monk and the miller's wifa
Dimes and dollars			Moet and Chandon
Down among the coals			Molly Astore
Donald M'Donald				New song in praise of Will-
Dawning of the day				iam, King of Prussia
Dan   O'Connell  and  Morris		Newcastle apothecary
O'Donnell;     or,   hatching		Only Nineteen years old
	chickens by steam		Othello's apology
Dublin carman				One bottle more
Excelsior				One legged goose
English emigrant			Old pine tree
Emmet's death				Pictures on the watt
Field of Waterloo			Pretty little girl with auburn
Frien's aroun' the table set			hair
Forlorn Quaker				Pride o' Edinboro'
Goodbye at the door			Pope in a, hobble
Grand dissolving views			Please to ring the bell
Gaily still my moments roll		Paddy's market
Gilmorehill				Quaker's meeting
God bless the Lord of Lorne		Rock me to sleep
Gallantpoacher				Raven
Haill rick-ma-tick (2 versions)		Roman fall
Hark ! I hear an angel sing		Rory of the hills
Here's to the maiden of bashful		Sporting Joe
	fifteen				Shepherd boy
Happy days may come again		Steam-loom weaver
Hardy Norseman				Shoo! fly! don't bother mt

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

Saturday. Dec.18 18751                                 P.D.—3.9.1859.An Excellent new Song lately composed
Entituled. the Pearel of the lrish Nation.

To its own Proper New Tune.

HArd was my Lot for to be shot,
By Cupits Cunning Arrows,
Both Night and Day I fall away,

Through persit grief and Sorrow,
To the Hills and Deals left Reveal,

And breaths forth my Lamentation,
Which I endure for that Virgin pure,

The Pearel of the Irish Nation,
Her Beauty so bright hath dazled my Sight,

and alas my poor Heart it is wounded,
No way can I find for to ease my Mind

By Cupit I am fore wounded,
Great is my Pain that I sustain,

and sad is my grief and Vexcation,
And all for the sake of a Beautiful Dame,

The Pearel of the Irish Nation,
Though many there be that dayly I see;

of Beautiful Charming Creatures,
With   Rid Rosie Cheeks and Ruby Lips,

and like wife Comlie Features,
But yet there is None Abroad or at Home.

in Country, Town, or Plantation,
That can compare with that Virgin Fair,

The Pearel of the Irish Nation.
No way Can I find to ease my Mind,

but spends my Time in weeping,
I Sigh and Groan, I Sob and I Moan,

whilst others lay by me a Sleeping,
To some Lonsome place I will go for a Space

and there I'le make my habitation,
Since I cannot gain that Berutiful Dame,

The Pearel of the Irish Nation,
I know there's some that think that I Murn,

and make my whole moan for the Lillle
Perhaps it is so but the Case of my woe,

is for the Ross that grows in the Vellie,
She's rare to be seen like Venas the Queen

for Modestie, Vertue and Patience,
My heart is in linckt with that Beautiful pink

The Pearel of the Irish Nation,
Alas there's none can ease my moan,

but only that Charming Creature,
Her chceks like the ross which sweetlie grows

hard by the Banks of the Ceder.
Her Name to declar this Time I'll forebear

though my Heart be filled with Vexcation.
Yet you may suppose she's called the Ross,

The Pearel of the lrish Nation,
These Lines I intend to have Pened,

and sent to my dearest Jewel,
To let her know part of, my woes

and if she chance to prove Cruel;

Like a Pilgrim I'll go thro' Frost and Snow

I'll foresake my former Station,
Since I cannot gain that Beautiful Dame;

The Pearel of the Irish Nation.              

I'd Transport Spain  from thence to Lorain.

I'll often times Cross the wide Occan,
Since Sorrow and  Pain throw disdain,

hath happen'd to be my Fortune,
If Hungar and Cold should on me take hold,

or cause me to Dye in the Station,
The Woods shall not ring nor hear me to Sing,
of the Pearel of  the Irish Nation.

Though I am sad yet if I had,

But part of the Gifts of Ovid,
With a willing Mind to what I am inelin'd,

And freely I have disclosed,
My Name I'll rehearse and put it in Verse

since I have made a Declaration,
For I Vow and I Swear my Heart is insnar'd

By the Pearel of the Irish Nation
P is a part and A is an Art,

and Tis a Teacher of Strangers,
R, I, C, is the Number of Three.

and K is the Keeper of Chambers,
The K shall be King, when E cannot Ring,

and L most ly by in his Station
The Y shall be young when it is now Sung

she's the Pearel of the Irish Nation,
Virgins most kind when you Read these Lines

and have the   same   perused,
If I have said ought out of the Way,

Pray you let me be Excused,
An Answer pray send to what I have Pend,

since I have made a Declaration,
For I Vow and I Swear my heart is insnar'd

by the Pearel of the Irish  Nation.

The Second Part.
O then replyed this Beautiful Bride,

Her answer it was with Discreation,
My Parents they say will turn me away,

if I Join  with your Prosession,
Out of this Land as I understand,

they'l turn me where I will see no Man
If I Attemp without Consent,

to marry a  Man that's a Reman.
My Dear said he if you will agree,

this day with me to   Marry,
There's Gold and Land at your Command

Therefore let us not  tarrie,
For let your Friends say what they can

I am oblidged to no Man,
There's  Gold and Land at your Command

although I am a Roman.
Alas why do you slight me so;

is it for my  Religion,
You are ungreatful if you do,

hold me in such Dirision.
For if all the Grecion Gold were mine,

on you I would bestow it,
Therefore your Heart to me resign,          

before your   Parents knows of it;         
O then she said as I'm a  Maid,

This Day I'll freely Marrie,
Therefore let us not be afraid,

Let Us no longer Tarrie,
For let my friends say what they can,

I'll never be ruled by no man,
My Heart and Hand's at thy command

altho' thou be a Roman.                        

This loving couple married were,
in Plenty Peace and Pleasure.
Near Castelblany as we hear,
enjoying store of Treasure,
This Young Man free from care and Strief

enjoys his charming Jewel,
she proves a Vertues Loving Wife,

although    her Friends was Creuel.

          F   I   N I S .The Rambler from Clair.

The first of my courtship that ever was known,
I straight took my way from the county Tyrone ;
Where mang  pretty fair maids they used me well there,
They Called me the stranger or Rambler from Clair.

It's when I set out for the town of Tralee,
Where I fell a courting young Sally Magee,
I first gained her favour and theu left her there,
And now they're in search of the Rambler from Clair.

It's there I enlisted in the town of Formoy,
But having many masters I could not comply;
My mind being bound for liberty, I vow and declare,
Deserted next morning was the Rambler from Clair.

I took up my hat and I made a low bow,
In hopes that the Colonel would pardon me now ;
But the pardon he gave me was hard and severe,
They flogged and confined the Rambler from Clair.

My old aged mother got a sudden surprise.
The cries of my brothers they rented the skies ;
Brave boys says my father, to your arms repair,
Bring back my darling the Rambler from Clair.

A way then they marched in a harmonious band,
Their guns o er their shoulders they were ten thousand strong;
The fire then  commenced, the hero's were there,
They broke the jail open, freed the Rambler from Clair.

Away then they marched in a harmonious band,
With their guns o'er their shoulders, &, their hats in their hand;
At the very first Tavern they drank hearty there,
And they made full commander of the Rambler from Clair.

Away then they marched to the Barony's Fort,
And some of our hero's they welcomed them there ;
The fire then commenced the smoke darkened the air,
They fought well commanded by the Rambler from Clair.

It's now I've got the title of a united man,
To stop in this country is more than I can,
It's off to America I must now repair,
Farewell to my friends and the county Kildare.

Farewell to my comrades wherever they be;
Likewise my old sweetheart young Sally Magee;
For the ship it is ready, tho wind it blows fair,
He's gone Joy go with him the Rambler from Clair.

Robert M'Intosh, Printer,  [ ] street  [  ]   DONNELLY & COOPER.

Come all you true-born Irishmen wherever ye be,
I pray you give ottention; anh listen unto me;
It's of as true a story as ever you did hear,
About Donnelly and Cooper that fought at Kildare.

'Twas on the 3rd of June, my boys the challenge was sent o'er,
From Britunnia to old Granua to raise her sons once more,
To renew their satisfaction, and their credit to recall;
So they were in distraction since bold Donelly conquered all.

When Granua read the challenge, and received it with a smile,
You had better haste into Kildare, my well-beloved child,
It's there you will reign victorious, as you have always done before,
And your deeds will shine most glorious all around Hiberna's shore.

The challenge was accepted, and those noble lads did prepare,
To meet with Captain Kelly on the Curragh of Kildare,
The Englishmen bet ten to one that day against poor Dan,
But such odds as these would never dismay the blood of Irishman.

When these two bully champions they stripped in the ring,
They faced each other manfully, and to work they did begin,
From six till nine they sparred on, till Danny knocked him down,
Well done, my child, Granua smiled, this is ten thousand pounds.

The second round that Cooper fought he knocked down Donnelly,
But Dan had steel likewise true game, and rose most manfully,
Eight active then was Cooper and knocked Donnelly down once more
The English they all cried out, the battle you may give o'er.

The cheering of those English peers did make the vallys sound,
Whilst their English champion kept prancing on the ground,
Full ten to one they freely bet, on the ground whereon they stand,
That their brave hero would soon deceive their boasting Irishman,

Long life to Miss Kelly, she recorded on the plain,
She boldly stepped into the ring, saying, Dan, what do you mean ?
Saying, Dan, my boy, what do you mean, Hibernia's son, says she,
My whole estate I've bet on you, brave Donnelly.

When Donnelly received the fall after the second round,
He spoke to Captain Keliy, as ho lay on the ground,
Saying, do not fear, for I'm not beat, although I got two falls,
I'll let them know, before I go, I'll make them pay for all.

I'm not afraid, brave Donnelly, Miss Kelly she did say,
For I have bet my coach and four that you may gain the day;
You are a true born Irishman, the gentry well do know,
And on the plains of sweet Kildare this day their valour show.

Donnelly rose up again, and meeting with great might,
For to surprise the nobles all he continued for to fight,
Cooper stood on his own defence, exertion proved in vain,
He then received a temple blow which reeled him on the plain,

Ye sons of proud Britannia, your boasting now give o'er,
Since by our hero Donnelly, your hero is no more;
In eleven rounds he got nine knocks down, besides broke his jawbone
ghake hands, says she, brave Donnelly, the battle Is our own.

SILVER
BELLS.

In the hush of eventide,
Sitting by my cottage door,
Fancy softly seems to glide
Backward to the days of yore.
And I hear in changeful swells
Sweetest tones of melody,
'Tis the sound of silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Silver bells, silver bells,
Silver bells of memory ;
Silver bells, silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Many faces have grown old,
Many forms been laid to rest,
Underneath the churchyard mould,
Those I loved the most and best,
Since I've heard the distant swells
Floating on the winds to me,
Low and sweet the silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Now I seem to live once more,
All the dear, delightful past,
E'er the shadows long before
Sunny skies had overcast.
When we wandered in the dells,
Lingered in the flowery lea,
List'ning to the silver bells,
Now the bells of memory.

LARBOARD

WATCH.

At dreary midnight's cheerless hour,
Deserted e'en by Cynthia's beam,
When tempests beat, and torrents roar,
And twinkling stars no longer gleam,
The weary sailor spent with toil,
Clings firmly to the weather shrouds,
And still the lengthened hours beguile,
Sings as he views the gathering clouds,
Larboard watch, ahoy!

But who can speak the joy he feels,
While o'er the foam his vessel reels,
And his tired eyelids slumbering fall,
He rouses at the welcome call
Of Larboard watch, ahoy!

With anxious care he eyes each wave,
That swelling threatens to o'er whelm,
And, his storm-beaten bark to save,
Directs with skill the faithful helm;
With joy he drinks the cheering grog,
'Mid storms that bellow loud and hoarse,
With joy he heaves the reeling log,
And marks the lee way and the course,
Lardboard watch ahoy!

JAMES KAY, GLASGOW.EWE BUCHTS.

Bonnie May to the ewe buchts is gane
To milk her father's ewes,
And aye as she sung her bonnie voice it rung
Right over the top of the knowes.

There was a troop of gentlemen
Came early riding by,
And one of them to the ewe buchts is gane,
To see May milking the ewes.

Milk on, milk on, my bonnie lass,
Milk on, milk on, said he-
Milk on, milk on, my bonnie lass,
And you'll show me o'er the lea.

Ride on, ride on, stout rider, said she,
Your steed's both stout and strong,
For out of the ewe buchts I winna gang,
For fear that you do me wrong.

He has ta'en her by the milk-white hand,
And by the wris: green sleeve,
And he has laid her down on the dewy land,
And he asked no man's leave,

He has put his hand in his pocket,
And has ta'en out guineas ten,
Saying, Take you that my bonnie lass,
For you'll never see me again.

He mounted on his milk-white steed,
And he's ridden after his men,
And a' that e'er his men ever said,
Was, Dear master, you've tarried long.

I have ridden east and I've travelled west,
And I have ridden among the knowes,
But the bonniest lass that e'er I saw,
Was milking her daddie's ewes.

She has put her milk pail on her head,
And she's gane singing bame,
And a' that e'er her father said,
Was, Dear daughter, you've tarried long.

There came a tod amongst the ewes,
And a woeful tod was he,
Before he had ta'en my ewe lamb away,
I'd rather he'd taen ither three.

It happened on a day, on a bonnie summer day
She was calling out her father's kye,
And who did she spy but the same nobleman,
Coming riding merrily by.

And one of them he did speak out.
Saying, Fair maid, have you got a man,
She turned herself quite saucy round about,
Saying, I've got one at, home.

Hold your tongue, my bonnie lass,
For as loud as i hear ye lee,
Do you no mind o' a cold misty night ,
When you were in the eve buchts wi' me?

He has ordered one of his men to come down,
And help her on behind,
Your father may call in his kye when he likes,
For they'll never be called in by mine.

For I am the laird o' Youghal Ward,
Have fifty ploughs and three ;
And I'm sure I've met wi'  the  gay bonniest lass
That's in a' the north couutry.

THE

TIME

OF THE

HOUSE.

Air.—The Priest and his Boots,
Long life and good health for bold Parnell and Biggar,
For they are not men with the hearts of a mouse,
They're for Ireland with courage and vigour,
And don't care a hang for '' The time of the House."
And whether the ministers frowning or smiling,
They change not their ways for his praise or his blame,
For Hartingdon's hints or for Hardy's reviling,
They know what they're at and they'll play out the
game.

CHORUS.

So here's good health to bold Parnell and Biggar,
For they are not men with the heart of a mouse,
They're fighting for Ireland with courage and vigour
And don't care a hang for the time of the house.

They say to the Saxons all bills of our making
You rudely throw out or pat up on the shelves ;
But if that be the course you are bent upon taking,
We'll see that you shall not do much for yourselves.
We'll baffle your plans  and will mangle your measures,
No matter how wildly you f ret or you foam,
Till at last you will find it the sweetest of pleasures
To send UK all back to our old house at home.

Chorus.

The Minister says there is no sort of reason
In keeping our parliament back from its work,
And talking of Ireland is something like treason,
When we want to think of our ally the Turk.
But Biggar makes answer quite ready and clever,
Let Russia and Turkey be blessed or acursed,
The draught in our hearts is old Ireland for ever,
And England will have to make peace with her first.

Chorus.THE

MARBLE

ARCH.

Written, Composed and Sung by SAM  BAGNALL.

WHILE s rolling near the Marble Arch,
One evening in July,
A maiden fair with golden hair,
Came tripping lightly  by,

The lustre of her a[  ] eyes

Shone o'er me lik   a torch, 
And in a  whisper sl[ ]y  said.
Is this the Marble Arch ?

                      Chorus :

While around her splendid form.
I drew the Magic circle,
I press'd her. caressed her.
My  brain was  in a  whirl,
Yet, around her splendid form.
I drew  the Magic circle,
I kiss'd her, and I called her.
A very pretty girl.

I led her to a shadey spot,

Beneath  a spreading tree,
And taking her by the lily hand,

Fell on my bended knee,
Behold I cried   arise  says she

And before I'd time to speak,
She imprinted one sharp burning smack,

Upon my blooming cheek.

But ever since that very night,

I've never seen my Queen,

But I've head say   she's run  away,

With a great  fat Horse Marine;
A ring I'll give  her, when we meet,

But not as you suppose.

I'll  never put it on her hand

But stick it  through her nose,

Good night  she said, in accents  low,

Then gently sqeezed  my hand,
My knee  began to knock and shake,

For I  could scarcely stand,
We'll meet   again   to-morrow night,

And then  prepare to march,
Oh, where says I, she then replied,

Beneath the Marble Arch.

O'DONNELL
			
ABOO !

  PROUDLY the note of trumpet is sounding,

    Loudly the war cries arise on the gale,
Fleetly the steed by Loe Suilig is bounding,
To join the thick squadrons in Saimear's green
On, every monntain  eer,             [vale,

Strangers to flight and fear;     [Hugh!
Rush to the standard of daundless Red
Bennought and Gallow-glass,
Throng from each mountain-pass!
On for old Erin—O Donnell Aboo.

Princely O'Neill to our aid is advancing,

With many  a cheiftain and warrior-clan; [ing 

A thousand proud steeds in his vanguard are pranc

'Neath the borders brave from the banks of the
Many a heart shall quail,     [Bann:—
Under its cost of mail;
Deeply the merciless foeman shall rue,
When on his ear shall ring,

Born on the breeze's wing,

Tyrconnell's dead  war cry-O' Donnell Aboo

Wildly o'er Desmond the war-wolf is bowling,

Fearless the Eagle sweeps over the plain,
The fox in the streets of the city is prowling—
All, all who wou'd seare them are banished of
Grasp, every stalwart band,       [slain !
Hackbut and battle-brand-
Pay them all lack the deep debt so long due
Norris and Clifford well
Can of Tir-Conaill tell—
Onward to glory—O'Donnell Aboo.

Sacred the cause that Clan-Conaill's  defending—

The aliars we kneel at and homes of our sire!
Ruthless the ruin, the foe is extending—
Midnisght is red with the plunderer's fires !
On with O'Donneil, men,
Fight the old fight again,

Sons of Tir-Consil all valiant and true !       

Make the false Saxon feel
Erin's avenging steel !

Strike for your country !- O'Donnell AbooA   NEW   SONG ON THE DEAR TIMES.

BY JOHN WILSON, GLASGOW.               

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Who lesale Stationer, 9 King Street, (off Trongate,) Glasgow.


Good people pay attention
To these my humble rhymes,
About the state of Trade,
And those shocking dear times ;
For everything is raised in price,
Till they're really past the score,
The way, they say, things are so dear,
Is owing to the war.

CHORUS.

Things are so high, poor people cry,
Such times was ne'er before,
or everything is raised in price
To carry on the War.

They say Provisions are coming down,
I wish it may be true,
For everything is now so dear,
We scarce know what to do.
For Oatmeal we have to pay
Two and Sixpence for a stone ;
And wi' supping Glasgow brose-meal
I'm spent to skin and bone.

It's Ninepence for a four-pound loaf,
Poor people has to pay ;
And beef and mutton is so dear,
It seldom comes our way.
Sevenpence a stone for Potatoes,
Half-rotten with disease ;
Thirteenpence for butter,
And eightpence a pound for cheese.

They've raised the price of barley,
Turnips, Carrots, and Greens,
Onions, pepper, and Mustard,
Likewise Peas and Beans.
The Treacle threepence a pound,            1
And we can't get milk to buy
So our wee drap brose and parritch
We mun often tak' them dry.

The Coals, I'm sure, they are so dear,
We can hardly get a fire ;
I think they'll starve us a' to death,
If things get any higher ;
For they've raised the bullocks' live
A penny on the lump ;
And as for eggs, when I get one,
My mouth will take the cramp.

There's the ham and bacon,
They've raised up so dear,
That we mun tak' saut herring,
For they're the cheapest gear.
And candles eightpence for a pound,
The other day I paid,
And the Undertakers have raised the.price
For burying of the dead.

It takes all the poor can earn,
A bite of meat to buy,
Not speaking of their ragged clothes,
Or shoon upon their feet,
While farm yards are stocked with grain.
And granaries breaking down,
The poor folk they are starving,
Both in Country and in town.

Now, to conclude, and make an end
Unto my humble lines.
You know with us poor singers
It is very hard times.
But to live, and let live,
Is a maxim you all know,
So I hope you'll buy a song from me,
Before that you do go

241BLYTHE

JOHNNY DRUMMOND.

Wha hasna  heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond,
Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond,
If you search a' the warl' frae Lanark to Lunnon,
Ye'll no find the equal o' blythe Johnny Drummond.
For Johnny's sae cracky, sae blythe, ah' sae witty,
At tellin' a story or auld Scottish ditty;
Wi' sic humour he sets aff the Scottish "Tea Party,"
The lads and the lasses a' giggle fu' hearty.
			Whas hasna heard, &c.

Wi' his braw tartan trews and his plaidy sae grand,
He cares na a fig for the best in the land ;
Wi'a stick in his tae hand, wi'each neighbour to
crack,
This is the'wark Johnny likes to be at.
Whenever blythe Johnny plays hap on the stage,
His dress gars the een o' the audience engage,
There's sic clappin' o' hands an' sic trampin' o' shoon,
Johnny gie's a bit laugh, an' they let him begin.
			Wha hasna heard, &c.

An' his muckle red waistcoat flapping down to his
thighs,
An' his corduroy bresks tied so neat to his knees,
An' his braw striped   stockings   an' clear   buckled
shoon,
An' his Scottish blne bonnet aye daffin' aboon.
But Johnny's wee wife saug as weel as himself,
O' a' Scottish minstrels she noo bears the bell;
Her clear siller voice mak's the rafters to ring,
She puts us in mind o' a mavis in spring.
			Wha hasna heard, &c.BLYTHE

JOHNNY DRUMMOND.

Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond,
Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond,
If you search a' the warl' frae Lanark to Lunnon,
Ye'll no find the equal o' blythe Johnny Drummend.
For Johnny's sae cracky, sae blythe, an' sae witty,
At tellin' a story or auld Scottish ditty;
Wi' sic humour he sets aff the Scottish "Tea Party,"
The lads and the lasses a' giggle fu' hearty.
		Whas hasna heard, &c.

Wi' his braw tartan trews and his plaidy sae grand,
He cares na a fig for the best in the land;
Wi' a stick in his tae hand, wi' each neighbour to
	crack,
This is the wark Johnny likes to be at.
Whenever blythe Johnny plays hap on the stage,
His dress gars the een o' the audience engage,
There's sic clappin' o' hands an' sic trampin' o' shoon,
Johnny gie's a bit laugh, an' they let him begin.
			Wha hasna heard, &c.

An' his muckle red waistcoat flapping down to his
	thighs,
An' his corduroy breeks tied sO neat to his kness,
An' his braw striped   stockings   an' clear   buckled
	shoon,
An' his Scottish blne bonnet aye daffin' aboon.
But Johnny's wee wife saug as weel as himsel',
O' a' Scottish minstrels she noo bears the bell;
Her clear siller voice mak's the rafters to ring,
She puts us in mind o' a mavis in spring.
			Wha hasna heard, &c.CUDDLE   DOON.

This Popular Recitation can always be had at the Poet's Boz, 224 Overgate Dundee

The bairnies cuddle doon at nicht,
Wi' muckle faucht an' din;
C, try an' sleep ye waukrife rogues,
Your father's comin' in.
They never heed a word I speak;
I try to gie a frown,
But aye I hap them up, and cry,
'O, bairnies cuddle doon.'

Wee Jamie wi' the curly heid,
He aye sleeps next the wa',
Bangs up an' cries, I want a piece,
The rascal starts them a'.
I rin an' fetch them pieces, drinks,
They stop awee the soun',
Then draw the blankets up an' cry,
'Noo, bairnies cuddle doon.'

But ere five minutes gang, wee Rab
Cries out, frae 'neath the claes,
'Mither, mak' Tam gie owre at once.
He's kittlin' wi' his taes.'
The mischief's in that Tam for tricks
He'd bother half the toon,
But aye I hap them up, an' cry,
'O, bairnies cuddle doon,'

At length they hear their father's fit,
And, as he steeks the door,
They turn their faces to the wa',
While Tam pretends to snore.
'Has a' the weens been guid ? he asks,
As he pits aff his shoon.
The bairnies, John, are in their beds,
An' lang since cuddled doon.'

An' juist afore we bed oorsels,
We look at oor wee lambs,
Tam has his airm roun' wee Rab's neck
An' Rab his airm roun' Tam's.
I lift wee Jamie up the bed,
An' as I straik each croon,
I whisper, till my heart fills up,
'O, bairnies, cuddle doon.'

The bairnies cuddle doon at nicht,
Wi' mirth that's dear to me ;
But sune the big warl's cark an' care,
Will quaten doon their glee.
Yet, come what may to ilka ane,
May He who rules aboon,
Aye whisper, though their pows be bauld
'O, bairnies, cuddle doon.'Drucken Jock.

They ca' me Drucken Jock;

That  may a'  be  true—
I neither beg nor steal,

    Although I'm sometimes fou.

I'm neither lame nor lazy,
And I pay for what I drink;

There's no sea muckle odds o' fock

   As ane wad think.



Ae night no lang sin syne,

I had got a drappie,
When doitin' hame's I might,
Unco fou and happy,

I chanced to meet Mess John,

He blamed me for the drink;

But there's no sae muckle odds o' fock
As ane wad think.



Neist Friday, in the toon,

I saw the reverend man

stoitin' frae an inn,

As fou as he could stan' !

I drew up to his side,

     And wi' a cunnin' wink,

Said, " There's no sae muckle odds o' fock.
As ane wad think."



The Laird o' Birlicha',

Ane elder o' the kirk,
Says he canna thole ava

This odious drucken wark !

He was drunk yestreen,

And fell into the sink,

Sae there's no sae muckle odds o' fock

    As ane wad think.



Hypocrisy I hate,
  And slander I detest;
Fauts shouldna a' be tell't—

    And mine amang the rest.

When ane reviles anither,

Judgment haud a blink;
For there's no sae muckle odd's o' fock

As ane wad think.



We a' hae our draff pocks-
Some firmly stuff'd nac doubt:
 I thers torn and patcht

    Wi' mony a steek and clout.

A' are nearly fou,

Lippin' wi' the brink;
Sae there's no sae  muckle odds o' fock
As ane wad think.GENEALOGY OF THE CLAN MACGREGOR.

This Popular Reading can always be had at the Poets' Box.

Before Apollo had a lute
More than a hundred year,
Macgregor played on his own pipes
His Highland clan to cheer.
He had a boat, too, of his own,
Made out of Highland wood,
Which saved Macgregor and his friends
From drowning at the Flood.

And you must know the Gaelic tongue
Was spoken in Glen Eden,
For Adam wrote his Highland sangs
The time his sheep were feedin'.
And Mrs Adam's name was Grant,
She came from Abergeldie,
She was a poetess, and wrote
The Birks o' Aberfeldy.

And furthermore, old Tubal-Cain,
His name was Dugald Dhu,
But was misprinted in the book,
The printer being fu'.
He was a blacksmith to his trade,
And made the first claymore,
Besides, he made the coat o' mail
That Noah's father wore.

And furthermore, it's gospel truth,
He did invent the bell,
Because, you see, he sold a dram
And needit it himsel'.
Young Dugald Vulcan served his time
With this same Dugald Dhu,
Five years he shod Macgregor's horse,
And Dugald's bellows blew.

Now Noah is a Grecian word,
In Gaelic its Macpherson,
He instituted Highland games,
Just for his own diversion.
Macallum Mhor, his son-in-law,
Was Lord Duke of Argyle,
His mother's name was Janet Gunn,
A sister of King Cail.

There's Samson, too, that's more of Greek,
His name was Gilderoy,
He felled a bullock wi' his neive,
When he was just a boy.
They took him off to Stirling jail,
They little kent his might,
He walked off with the gates and all
At the dead hoar o' night.

There's no use talking about Greek,
It's just a sort of gabble,
A portion of the Highland tongue
Spoiled at the tower of Babel.
The Greeks you see were not a clan,
Although of the same bone,
But just a sort of labouring men
That carried bricks and stone.

For instance, there's the Iliad, now
It's ruined altogether,
'Twas first wrote in the Gaelic tongue
By Homer in Balquhidder.
The Greeks they got it at the last,
And spoiled it as you see ;
Then swore that Homer was a Greek—
A most infernal lee.

But that's not all, our Highland chiefs
They all got pagan names,
Such as Achilles—bless my soul,
The more's the burning shame.
Fingal was Ajax—or the like,
Ossian they made a Spartan,
Macgregor was—the Lord knows what,
'Twas something about tartan.

Now maybe you would like to know
Where this Glen Eden stood,
Ochone ! it was a bonny place
Before that awful flood.
Aweel 'twas just in Inverness,
Some say 'twas in Argyle—
We needn't quarrel 'bout a word.
'Twas in Scotland all the while.

A List of Popular Readings and Recitations.

Always to be had at the POETS' Box.
A New Method of Promoting the Rapid Growth of

Whiskers.

Bowl Aboot.       Cobbler's Sermon.
Donald and His Dog.        Dying Convict's Soliloquy.
Eating, Drinking, and Thinking.
Edinburgh After Flodden.
Elder's First and Last Visit to the Play House.
Emigrant's Farewell to His Country.
Eppie and the Deil.    Eliza.    Execution of Montrose.
Execution of Fanny Amlett.       Excelsior.
Equal-Aqual.       Evening Thoughts.
Fire an' Brimstane.         Farmer and the Barrister.
Fall of Adam.       Five-Shilling Fee.
Fat Actor and the Rustic.Margaret and the Minister.

A TRUE TALE.
PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies can always be had in the POET'S Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow.

A douse, religious kintry wife,
That liv'd a quiet, contented life,
To show respect unto the priest
Wham she esteemed within her breast,
Catch'd twa fat hens, baith big an' plump
An' butter she pack'd up a lump ;
Which she a present meant to gi'e him,
An' wi' them aff she gaed to see him,
Dress'd in her ain auld kintry fas'on,
Wi' brown stuff gown, an' braw white bussin;
A dark blue cloak an' hood co'erd a'.
Sae lade, sae clad, she marched awa';
Thus trudg'd alang—and hence, believe,
At the manse door she did arrive :
Rapp't—was admitted by the maid ;
Ben to the kitchen wi' her gade—
Syne for the minister enquir'd;
Who soon came but, as she desir'd ;
When she to him a curtchie made;
An' he to her thus smiling said :—

MINISTER.

" O ! my dear Margaret, is this you ?
I'm glad to see you; how d'ye do ?
How's Tamos, my auld worthy frien' ?
How's Jock, your son, and daughter, Jean

MARGARET.

." They're gaily, sir, we're a' meat heal,
Yet Tamie's e'en but unco frail;
But, here's some butter, I present ye,
Which, wi' thir hens, I compliment ye."

MINISTER.

" Howt, Margaret! this speaks t' expense
But thanks ye'se get for recompense:
Wi' gratefu' heart, I freely tell
Ye're kind an' ever like yoursel'."

MARGARET.

" Whisht, sir I wi' thanks; nae thanks ava;
Ye're worthy mair; the gift's but sma';
But this acknowledgment here from us,
Means ye're beloved by me an' Tamos."

MINISTER.

" Sic favours, sure, I ne'er expected,
Yet blythe am I, I'm sae respected :
Fling aff your cloak and follow me ;
Come ben, an' rest, an' crack a wee ;
'Tis no sae aft ye come to see us,
Ye'll wait and tak' your dinner wi' us;
A's ready, waiting on my comin';
Come ben, then Margaret, honest woman."

MARGARET.

"Na, na, sir ! dinna speak o' that,
I'll tak' nae dinner, weel I wat:
Wi' gentle manners, (ye will grant it,)
I've ever yet been unacquantet."

MINISTER.

" The manners that ye use at hame,
Use here and banish fear and shame.
The company's but few, they're wholly
My wife, a preacher, Jess, an' Polly ;
Ye'se tak' your dinner e'er you gang,
Just do like me, ye'll no gae wrang."

To dine at last she was advised;
Gade glowerin' ben like ane surpris'd;
Spread wide her gown, her head erecked ;
Confused and awkwardly she becked;
While rev'rend Mess John, kind and fair.
Conducted her unto a chair :
An' tauld them in a knacky sentence,
She was an intimate acquantance,

Blate like, aroun' them a' she gaz'd ;

But at the table was amaz'd:

She ne'er before saw sicken fairlies,

Sae mony antic tirly-whirlies!—

How to behave when she was eating,

In sic a nicy, gentle meeting,

She had great fears—her heart was beating;

Her legs did shake—her face was sweating;

But still, she was resolved, anon,

To do in all things like Mess John.

A' ready sitting face to face,
His rev'rence, gravely, said the grace;
Then, wi' a frank an' open air,
Bade them fa' on, an' lib'ral share—
But, he being wi' the palsy troubled,
In lifting spoonfu's aften dribbled;
Sae to prevent the draps o' broth,
He prin'd to's breast, the table cloth,
Now Margaret's settled resolution,
Was quickly put in execution ;
For as was said already, she did
Resolve to do whatever he did.
She therefore, also, like the priest,
Prin'd the cloth firmly to her briest,
Wi a prin twa inches lang at least;
Which smiles frae them at table drew,
As far's gude breeding wad allow.

Sae soon as they the kail had supped,

To glancin' knives an' forks they gripped ;

Wi' them to weel filled plates fell keenly;

Ate—took a drink an' cracked frien'ly,

But Margaret only was a hearer,

She was sae blate. nought seem'd to cheer her,

Sae mony things appearing new,

Came ilka minute in her view,

And filled her mind sae fu' o' dread,

Cracking was clean out o' her head.

In course, the pastor, her example,
That brought her there to feed sae ample,
She notic'd twa or three times take
Out o' a dish, flaik after flaik
o' mustard ;—which she judg'd to be
Gravie, or some delicious brie.
For Margaret never did peruse it,
Ken d na it's name, nor how to use it;
But now determined to partake o't,
She wi' a teaspoon took a flaik o't!
Heedless, she supped up the whole !
Then! instantly she looked droll.

Dung doited in a moment's space,

She hung her head and threw her face !

Flung down her knife and fork, displeas'd,

Syne wi' baith her hands her nose she seiz'd,

While it did bite and blin' her een;

The like o't, sure, was never seen :

For, startin' up as fast as able,

The hale gear tumbled aff the table !

The crash o' croak'ry ware resounded,
Plates truntlin'—ilka ain confounded !—
Straight to the door she frantic flew,
An' after her Mess John she drew;
Which drave the company a' throughither.
As they were kippled baith thegither.
But, in a crack the prins brak' loose,
An' Margaret, ravin', left the house.

Hameward, in haste, she hobbl'd, sweating;
Tell'd Tamos the disaster, greeting;
Wrung baith her hands, an' solemn sware,
To dine wi' gentle folk nae mair.

Saturday morning, July 15, 1871.M.O.N.E.Y.

Sung by HARRY RUSSELL, with great success.

Copies of this popular song can always be had the POET''S Box,
Overgate, Dundee.

'Tis mony makes the mair to go is a saying old and true,
And when you've got the ready cash, friends will stick
like glue,
But when your purse is empty, those friends you thought
sincere,
Will proudly turn upon their heels, and quickly disapper.
'Tis then I murmur to myself I must have been a fool,
To allow those artful fellows to make me there ready tool,
But should fortune smile on me again I'll bet you may
rely,
That the only friend   that  I shall   make is   M.O.N.E.Y.

CHORUS.

M.O.N.E.Y thats the stuff to bring you joy,
When you've got the £ s d everybody seems so free,
Folks you' never knew before flock around vou by the
score,
And girls to win your love will try for your M.O.N.E.Y.

How oft a girl of eighteen weds, a man that's old and
gray,
And vows upon the alter to love honour, and obay,
She spends his money foolishy on jewellry and on clothes,
But when his back is turned she'll put her finger to her
nose.
She does'nt care pin for him but when he's by her side,
She'll smile and pat his wrinkled cheek then wish that's
time  he died,
And oft she'll meet a formar beau at night upon the sly.
And on him she will spend the old man's M.O.N.E.Y.

The parson preaches in the church he does not do it free,
Lawyres gives advice, but then they always want there
fee,
And butchers to will smell a rat if funds are getting low.
You ask your meat on cre lit, they'll quickly answer no.
And landlords they seem so polite if you your rent should
pay.
But miss a quarter and you'll find the baliffs in next day.
And wives seem cold and distant too if to stint them you
should try,
And they won't be civil until they get their M.O.N.E.Y.

SONGS! SONGS!! SONGS!!!
The largest Variety of Songs in Scotland is at the
POET'S BoX, 132 OVEGATE. DUNDEE.POEMS

To the P R A I S E of most of the NOBILITY in the Kingdom of Scotland

THE Duke of Hamilton he Rides up and down 
To the Court but cannot Prevail,                  

The way is so rough, that he cannot win through 

Good, Day to my Lord Lawderdale.
The Duke of Lawderdale, thinks he cannot fail,
For what he does the King Dispenees,                    

His Power he shows to his Friends and his Foes     

Good day to my good Lord of Lennox.

My Lord Duke of Lennox, is now come among us,
A Prince and a Peer in our Country,                      

The Stewarts of Race must still have the Place,      

Good Day to my good Lord of Huntly
The Marquess of Huntly in the North he plaid bouty 
When he saw how Maters did Pass,
Being of the same Stock of the Duke of Norfolk

Good Day to my Good Lord of Dowglas,
The Marquess of Dowglas he is still as he was
Of his Lady does well  dispense
He cares not a Plack seeing he may have a Jack

Good Day to my Lord of Montrose,
The Marquess of Mentrose his Majesty chose
To have the van of the Battle.
Like his Grandfather stout he commandeth a Troup

Good day to my Good Lord of Athol.
The Marques of Athol he's made of good Mettel,
Admireing himself for a while
But he finds that the Crown can set up and down

Good Day to the Noble Argyle.
The Earl of Argyle by Policy and Wile
The M'Cleans M' Donaids and Hersel.
He made them transact, and it was found their Own

Good day to my good Lord of Marshel,   ( Fact
The Earl of Marshel by Parcel and parcil,
Commandeth the House and apparel
He fitteth above and crieth remove

Good day to my good Lord of Erroll,
The Earl of Errol for judging a quarrel,
Is known both near and affar,
Where er'e the King Sits as Constable he is

Good day to the Earl of Mar.
The Earl of Mar, no Moto no Star,
Hes got a Regement of late,
But if the Court fail, he must needs turn his Tail,

Good day to my Lord Strathmore.
The Earl of Strathmore Kinghorn before
with his Heart he Women did Love,
But soon he did fail, for he got a burnt T—-1

Good day to mylord Panmure.
The Earl of Panmure he thinks he is sure,
To get Children is no hard task
His Ladies good Mettal, but his Worships not little

Good day to my lord Southesk,
The Earl of Soutbesk, at whom may you ask
If heel wait on the Duke to the Ferry
His Lady claims Right to Grace Lord and Knight

Good day to my Lord Quensberrie
The Earl of Queensberry he says hell not tarry
From a Cannongate Lady but Bussie,
That Lady to serve with whom heell not swerve,

Good day to my Lord Dalhoussie.
The Earl of Dalhoussie, so Trig and so Tousie,
From heland Dame has brought o're
She's Virtuous and good, yet has squized his best

Good day to my Lord Kintoir.               (Blood

The Earl of Kintoir Knight Marshel before,

He would have given all his Coyn

For a piece of Irish Beef, but he is not a Thief,

Good day to my good Lord Aboyn.
The Earl of Abon with whom shall he joyn,
Since lately a lace he hath Tint on.
Of Marriage he Tyers what is he desires,

Good day to my good Lord of Winton.
The Earl of Winton,O where shall he Find one
Ir's tedious to live alone,
She who takes him is fearless, & of her self careless

Good day to my Lord Eghntoun
The Earl of Eglinton has discussed a Chrighton,
And married again at Duncaster.
A Widows not worse nor is a dull Horse

Good Day to my Lord Finlator,
The Earl of Finlator could searcely win at her
Till he got his Phisycal Morsels,
As his Father begot him, so just was he like him.

Good Day to the Noble Lord Rothes. 
The Earl of Rothes was ever still steedfast,
And evermore true to his Word,
He'll bring home a Son, and Nick Haddington,

Good day to my good Lord of Crawford,
The Earl of Crawford says Scripture hell show fort
That Jacobite Rebels should  String   all
The White Stafe he lost, and a Pention it coast

Good lay to my good Lord of Melvil,
My Good Lord of Melvil, he speaks and he tells well
Of Gospel and Law has enough,
To the Court makes a start, and plays his own part

Good day to his Grace of Buckcleugh.
The Duke of Buclugh he aspires high enough
And puts the Nations all in a Hurrie,
Though a Man of renown,must needs be keept down

Good day to my good Lord of Murray,
The Earl of Murray how does he survey
To Council and Exchequer doth go,
But bet from Ham. that ever he came,
Good day to my 



 Lord of Lithgo.
The Earl of Lithgo he makes a brave show,
But the Battle hes not ready to dart on,
It's better expel Mistris Fox from himsell

Good day to my Lord of  Dumbarton.
The Earl of Dumbarton is now discorded on,
And gone into a far Land.
It's best keep him out, when his Back is about

Good day to my Lord Dundonald.
The Ear'l of Dundonald, he's now turn'd Old ;
But still loves both Boyes and lasses,
He is wondrous for Pelf so is his Lady her self,

Good day to my good Lord of Cassels.
The Earl of Cassels no hearer of Mess is
He is gone to France all allone
 His Lady goes about, and himself spaired out

Good day to my Lord Middleton.
The Earl of Middleton at  Court advanced on
In Scotland of Rent not a Farding,
His Father's last Marriage was all his Miscarriage

Good day to my Lard of Kincairdin.
The Earl of Kincairdin he is now  turn'd Blind,
But still goes to Hunting and Hacking,
He had better stay behind and better things Mind
Than be troubled with such things as Makine.

Printed in the Year 1678 and Reprinted 1718.RECITATION.

MY DEAR OLD SAXHORN.

I love thee, I prize thee, and who can scorn
Or chide me for loving my dear tenor horn ?
Together we've journeyed for many long years,
And the thoughts of our parting would cause
	bitter tears.
Thy music hath cheered me, when pressed down
	with care,
As we travelled together per terra et mare,
Through lands of bright sunshine, o'er seas deep
	and wide ;
Still faithful and constant thou clung to my side.

Then deem me not childish to cherish thee so,
For thy soul-stirring strains are a balm for my
	woe,
Without thee, this world would be  drear and
	forlorn ;
Thou faithful companion, my darling Saxhorn.
Though still and inanimate, yet thou hast sound,
And musical speech, most brilliant, profound,
Speech dearer to me-i.e., in a sense-
Than all vocal rhythm or grand eloquence.

Oh! often I think of those happy days past,
Ere sorrow and trouble their clouds o'er us cast ;
When bold and majestic we played in the Band,
And thy clear mellow tones were heard o'er the
	land.
Forget them ! no never, those dear happy days,
When together we shared in the honour and
	praise
For our fulness of tone, and phrasing so rare ;
Ah ! few in those days with us could compare.

In solo, fugue, cadence, and recitative,
How grandly we revelled, few could believe ;
Thy vibrating tones, like loud peals of thunder,
O'er  Bengal's hot plains caused natives to wonder.
Oh ! music, thy influence who can withstand ?
Thy power is felt in every land,
Not only by mankind, but creation mute-
Snakes, reptiles, fish, insects, the fowl, and the
	brute.

Thro' life's chequered  pathway what changes
	we've seen ;
We've played for the gay, the grave and serene,
We've played to the camp, for the banquet and
	ball,
We've played " The Dead March," ah! saddest of
	all.
Alas for the beautiful days of the past ;
Their joys, so evanescent, were too sweet to last ;
Now lonely I wander, both sad and forlorn,
Scarce able to breathe in my dear tenor horn.

My once erect form is now bent down with woe,
And my steps they are tottering, feeble and slow ;
Whilst poverty, sickness, sorrow, and care,
And grief, beyond measure, have whiten'd my
	hair.
Old Time's cruel hand has furrowed my brow,
And my teeth-like my friends-ah ! where are
	they now ?
Alas, they have vanished with th' exception of
	one-
Like  the  " The Last Rose   of  Summer"-left
	decaying  alone.

But the loss of my dentals I soon could forget,
If I had but the means to obtain a new set ;
Yet still, I'll not murmur, why should I repine ?
I have one solace left me, this true friend of mine ;
A staunch, true, and tried one-one faithful till
	death-
A friend that I've shared with, aye, even my
	breath,
Though now old and friendless, forsaken, forlorn,
I still have a friend in my trusty Saxhorn.

Together we've lived, together we'll die,
And placed in one grave, still  united we'd lie ;
For cruel 'twould be such true friends to part,
Such thoughts, even now, brings a pang to my
	heart.
When life's journey's  ended, grant me this request
In one grave together, please lay us to rest ;
This simple inscription our headstone adorn,
" Here lies poor old Jim and his E flat Saxhorn".

J. M. WILLIAMS,
Formerly of  the Band XL Regt.SCOTLAND'S STAGNATION!

.

Or, Where is all the Money gone ?

-------------------------:---------------------------------------:    
The oldest person in the world, on land or on the water,
Never saw such times before, since Sampson killed his daughter.
The peoples'.doors, I am so sure, are on the hinges creaking ;
All clothes are pop'd, all works are stopp'd, and all the Merchants
breaking.

CHORUS.



Tens of thousands out of work, what will the country come to:
I cannot think, says every one, where all the trade is gone to.

I wonder where all the trade is gone, says Jock to Jenny Harding !
Laddies used to spend half-a-crown, but now can't sport a farthing.
The flesher cannot sell his fat ; the miller's bags are dusty;
The baker says his penny rolls are getting stale and musty.

Tens of thousands, &c.

The chimney-sweeps are all discharged ;  the barbers & the tailors ;
Twelve thousand snobs are out of work, and a million of navigators..
The Merchants all, ------------, will have to be coal-heavers ;
They have discharged and sent at large 10,000 Paisley weavers.

Tens of thousands, &c.

The thieves say the times are very hard—if pouches they try twenty,
Nineteen out of them are to let—they are completely empty.
The doctors' say they've nothing to do, the lawyers they are crying ;
The coffin-makers are fully employed, 'cause poor folk all are dying.

Tens of thousands, &c.

The pretty lasses that walk the streets in sorrow tales are grieving ;
They say at night they cannot get themselves an honest living.
If one meets a swell, how sad to tell, he nicely does trepan her.
Where they used to get half-a-crown, they scarce can get a tanner.

Tens of thousands, &c.

If times don't alter very soon, we soon shall die in grief, sirs.
And have to sew up all our mouths, and pull out all our teeth, sirs.
Old Aberdeen, in the House of Lords, knock'd down Lord Stanley

right slap,

Crying, where is all the siller gone, and then he eat his night-cap.

Tens of thousands, &c.

I wonder where all the money is gone, there is such a fuss abont it,
Money is "a glorious thing, we cannot do without it.
 They have raked  it up, and sent it off, to you, I do declare.
Some says its off to Sebastopol to fight the Russian Bear.      

Tens of thousands, &c.       

                                                                                  •                     ..                      

The provisions now, are very dear, poor folks can scarcely fend.
And if Sebastopol was taken, then perhaps the times would mend.
If they don't make some alteration soon, the folk will play some.
 capers,                                                                              

Either out of iron, brass, or steel, dried cabbage leaves, or paper.

Tens of thousands, &c.

								                                                                                        No matter what it is, as long as times are very funny.
If it is as good, and made of wood, some call it money.               
For money is scarce, and trade is bad, to you I do declare, 
So now my lads yon all can list, to go and fight the Russian Bear

Tens of thousands, &c.SONG OF THE JOLLY JURYMEN.

                        —

TUNE—" Sow's Tail to Geordie."

                  —

The Boar an' Geordie * tried a race,                    
Atween the pantry an' the brace,
Gaordie fell an' brack his face—
The sow's tail to Geordie.

CHORUS.

 The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's head's at him yet ;
Say what they may, I'll win the day,
And turn the tails on Geordie.

Grumphy, grumphy, turn about,
Houk an' scrape, an' pock your snout ;  
Ilk " Feal " an' stane I'll turn about
To win the day on Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's snout's at him yet ;   
By hook or crook I'll houk it out,
To turn the tails on Geordie.      

The Jury's drawn, an'  sworn weel ;
Grumph ! cried Rob, it's a' ideal—
Look, see, I've got the man o' " Feal,"—
The sow's tail's ,to Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's head's at him yet ;
Prove what ye like, the bircie tyke
He's sure to win on Geordie.

Says Rob, I think I'd best look out ;
There's Johnnie B——h an' Willie F—
What though I gang an' tryst a " suit,"—
A's fair when fechtin' Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's head's at him yet ;
If they're inclined to change their mind,
Far better me than Geordie.

Now " Lumie," see an' show gude cause,
'Bout Dye works, Bleachfields, Waterfa's,
An' other monstrous fallacies,
To turn the tails on Gaordie.
The, sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's snout's at him yet ;
An' state as fact your rotten stacks,
A' this will tell on Geordie.

An' should your stock o' proof rin dune,
Bring other ferlies frae the mune ;
A's fair when at the Ba' o' Scone,
An' Jury Trials wi' Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's head's at him yet ;
Your cattle-creep, an' fords are steep,
A's wranged an' spoiled by Geordie.

Now there's  "Craiglockhart," hear him weel,
For he will tacts an' truths reveal ;
No, no, our hearts are hard like steel,
On facts regarding Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's lugs are hinging yet :
We'll hear nae mair, but will declare
Twa thousand's due by Geordie.

The Trial's oure, the Verdicts gi'en ;
We scarcely could believe our een—.
There's eight to five o' the thirteen,
Hae turned their tails on Geordie.
The sow's taii's till him yet,
The Boar's head's at him yet ;
" The diel's run in a herd o' swine,"—.
Oure lugs in Queich wi' Geordie.

Now for the " Five " who nobly stood,      
They'll hae a country's gratitude ;
The other " Eight " are Grunty's brood,
An' held in scorn by Geordie.
The sow's tail's till him yet,
The Boar's head 'ill shame him yet ;
Keep me an' mine frae herds of swine,
Frae Jury Trials wi' Geordie.
  

    *Railway.The Ball of Dandyorum.

This very comical song was written and sung by J. Kearney, in the character
of 'Owney,' at the Castle Tavern, Dublin ; and so great is the thirst for it in
Scotland, that hourly are the walls of the Box echoing with lots of young chaps
crying out for 'Dandyorum.'  Till now the Poet could never get hold of it ; but
now that the Yankee and the steam power of Billy has got hold of it, all can get 
Dandyorum from the usual place, Poet's Box, No. 6, St Andrew's Lane, off Gal-
lowgate Street, Glasgow.

AIR- The Rakes o' Mallow.

All you that are here attend, I pray,
And you shall hear, without delay,
About a party great and gay,
The type of all decorum
The nobility met one and all,
Last week, down in the Music Hall,
At a Masquerade and Fancy Ball,
That was gave by Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral, &c

Large  placards soon the fun announced,
The ladies got their gowns well flounced ,
And as through jigs and reels they bounced,
Like ribbons they all tore 'em
Michael's Lane, and Meath Street too,
Was search'd for clothes, black, brown, and blue,
To dress this awful motley crew
For the ball of Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral  &c 

For tickets they had such demand,
His committee soon had it planned
To go and engage with Jullien's band,
They sent them off  before 'em
They made me Usher of the Rod,
Till the lush began to make me nod,
Then on the buniony toes I trod
On the moth of Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral, &c

Zozimus came drest as a Turk,
Peg the man was Paddy from Cork,
Lord Howth, as a tinker, wanted work,
He tied my bib before him
A quadrille or waltz he'd not go through,
But he roared for kettles old or new;
When he got no hammering to do,
He hammered Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral, &c

There were oyster  men and cockle pickers,
Snibs was watching all our tickers ,
Spaniards, Turks, and herring-feckers
Dancing Tullochgorum.

Major White and Mickey Maw  
Were dressed as two limbs of the law,
With clients they kept up such jaw,
I complained to Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral, &c

Dandyorum called them two blackguards,
That  led to an exchange of cards,
They brought pistols down to one of the yards
But first they drank a jorum
They pulled the triggers bold and stout,
But devil a bullet would come out,
They were loaded both with stirabout
By the friends of Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral, &c

The Major's shot took no effect,
But Dandy's hit him in the neck,
And left his clothes a pretty spec,    
With the stirabout all o'er him
When Mickey seen the Major's job,
For spite he tore his foolish nob,
And he swore by his martial slipper gob
He'd swallow Dandyorum.
                           Tooral ooral, &c

The report of both the pistol shots
Frightened the life out of all the moths,
They ran, and down went pans and pots,
That was making up the jorum
The Music Hall began to fill
With Peelers, and to show their skill,
To the station house, their last quad-rille,
Was led by Dandyorum.
		Tooral ooral,  &c

In the morning we were marched in state
Before the sitting magistrate,
And the Peeler that was on the beat
Showed how the moths all tore him
Old Bag-wig says, you've broke the peace,
You must get a run in the Bastile chaise,
To round the rack for fourteen days-
O,  more luck! says Dandyorum.
		Tooral oeral,  &c

This funny song, along with thousands of others, can only be had from the Poet out of his Box, No. 6,
St Andrew's Lane, off Gallowgate Street, Glasgow.  Bear in mind to come there, for the Poet is now away
from his old Box, it being very meanly and very shabbily taken over his head.

But all say they would rather see the Poet in his New Box, for they have more room by far, so then
come all to the New Box, No. 6,  St  Andrew's Lane, off Gallowgate Street, Glasgow.
2d June 1851The Dancing Swell.

PRICE  ONE PENNY.

Copies of this favourite song can only be had in the
POET'S BOX,- 86 LONDON STREET,Glasgow.

Tune—Original,

In the art of dancing
Greatly I excel,
It has a power entrancing
On this agile swell.
Girls to dance are willing,
All to me incline,
They say, with glances killing,
My waltzing is " divine."

Chorus—They call me " the dancing swell,"
	All others I do excel,
	Wherever I go I'd have you to know,
	I'm known as the dancing swell.
(Dance-Waltz)

For a partner taking
Whomsoe'er I choose,
Such impression making
That they can't refuse.
They, when they've the chance, too,
Gladly it embrace,
They all avow I dance, too,
The Polka with " such grace."
		They call me, &c.
(Dance—Tempo di Polka.)

I'm the sole delight of
Each accomplished Miss,
He they ne'er lose sight of,
Or 'twould mar their bliss.
Bound the ball-room prancing.
Graceful, easy, light,
And when Varsovians dancing,
I am " perfection quite."
		They call me, &c.
(Dance—Varsoviana.)

Ball-room or Casino,
There I reign supreme,
None compete with me. no,
None would ever dream.
None possess the power,
So one dare to try,
And then in the Redowa,
No one can with me vie.
		They call me, &c.
(Dance—Redowa.)

That my style has ease with
Elegance combined,
Every one agrees with,
E'en the most refined.
When the Schottische dancing,
Well I mark the time,
Girls say, without romancing,
In that I'm " most sublime."
		They call me, &c.
(Dance— Schottische.)

CATALOGUE OF  NEWEST SONGS.
Let Glasgow flourish               	London Lions
Matilda Toots                         	The news boy
Bitter beer                             The pawnshop on fire
The apple-stall                        	You would not leave your
The ewe-buchts                          Norah

Saturday Morning, Sept. 22, 1866.The Downfall of the Dyke.

You've heard tell of this muckle dyke,
Built on the banks of Clyde, man,
That, has near stood the 6th year's flood,   
And Winter's storm beside, man;
There's not a stone in Tammies dyke,
But cost a hundred pound, man,
But down 'twill go, like Jericho,
Quite level wish the ground man.
			Fat lal de day, &c.

In eighteen hundred twenty-three,
The Parkhead lads paraded,
It did them goad, to see their road,
By a strong dyke blockaded;
With spade and pick, unto auld Nick,
This Muckle Dyke is driven,
These lads of fame had to remain,
For it, six' months' in prison.

On the next night, before 'twas light,
The Masons were collected,
With Stone and Lime, in a short time,
Again it was erected;                      
There it stood like a Pyramid,              
To be a world's wonder,
Twas thought again the sons of men.
Could not pull it asunder.

Camlachie fo'k and Parkhead lads.
I'm sure they did not like, man,
To see the road their father's trod,
Clos'd by a muckle dyke, man;
They thought again, they might obtain.
Their liberty and right, man,
Which long had been withheld from them-
By casting in their mite, man.

The people then of Glasgow town,
Of every description,
Right frank and free, they did agree,
To raise up a subscription;
To Edinbro'the case did go,        
In Court there to be try'd, man,
The dyke must fall, the lasses all,
May walk the banks of Clyde, man.

Now pride it is a cursed thing.
A mong Christians or Pagans,
'Twes pride, Sir, that sent Lucifer,
To the   infernal regions;
This thing, call'd pride, I can't abide,
Since about pride I'm talking,
Twas pride, or the like, that built this dyke
To stop the fo'k from walking.

You Glasgow fo'k, I you invoke,
You country fo'k and  a',  man,
Your voices raise, let bonfires blaze,
The Muckle Dyke must fa', man;   
Fill up a gill, with free gude will,
And haste, ye lads, round send it.
Poor Tammie's done, now that's the fun,
And so my song I'll end  it.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.The Jolly School of Boys.

PRICE   ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the POET'S Box, 80  London street, Glasgow.

TUNE—Original.
	
	I am the member of a school
	Where the master is a fool,
And all the pupil teachers are the same,
	And for kicking up a noise,
	They have called us the jolly boys,
And I think that we are deserving of that name.
	You should see us when we are met,
	I am sure you would ne'er forget,
The awful tricks that we do carry on,
	For stamping with our feet,
	Or tumbling on the seats,
Or pulling down some charming girl's chignon.

CHORUS.

So, oh ! boys, join me in the chorus,
Sing aloud, and make an awful noise,
	Oh do not look so shy,
	But come and be as I,
A member of our jolly school of boys.

	Now it is a lady we have got
	For to teach our happy lot,
And, oh !  but she is generous and kind,
	For she brings her pockets full,
	Every Sunday to the school,
And that keeps us quiet for a while ;
	But as soon as they are done,
	Then we begin the fun,
And then an awful hubbub we do raise,
	While she tries to teach the rest,
	I begin some foolish jest,
Or larking while they sing the psalms of praise.

	Now right opposite our class,
	There sits a blooming lass,
And at me she blushingly does  hang her head ;
	And this damsel so divine,
	Has promised to be mine,
And soon she to the altar will be led.
	And this damsel fair,
	I solemnly declare,
Has consented for to give her hand at last;
	But I fear she has stole my heart,
	For she is so jolly smart,
She is the cleverest pickpocket in the class.

	Now the master often swears
	That he will kick us all down stairs,
If ever we go back there again ;
	But of course I must make it right,
	When we call each Sunday night,
For he is one of those generous sort of men.
	But now I must away,
	No longer I can stay,
Quite long enough I think I've been your fool,
	But if you have a mind
	Our jolly school to join,
Just you come down on Sunday to the school.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.THE KING

Of the Cannibal Islands.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of  this humourous song can only be had in the Poet's
Box,6  St Andrew's   Lane, Glasgow.

Air—Hokee pokee wonkee fum.

Oh, have you heard the news of late,
About a mighty king so great ?
It you have not, 'tis in my pate—
	The King of the Cannibal Islands.
He was so tall—near six feet six.
He had a head like Mister Nick's,
His palace was like Dirty Dick's,
'Twas huilt of mud for want of bricks,
And his name was Poonoowingkewang,
Flibeedee flobeedee-buskeebang;
And a lot of Indians swore they'd hang
The King of the Cannibal Islands.
Hokee pokee wonkee fum,.
Puttee po pee kaihula cum,
Tongaree, wougaree, chiug ring wum,.
The King of the Cannibal Islands.

This mighty king had, in one hut,
Seventy wives as black as soot,
And thirty of a double smut—
	The King of the Cannibal Islands.
So just one hundred wives he had,
And every week he was a dad,
Upon my word, it was too bad,
For his smutty dears soon drove him mad ;
There was Hungkee Monkee, short and tall,
With Tuzzee Mnzzee, and Keekoo Pall,
And some of them swore they would have all
The King of the Cannibal Islands
			Hokee pokee, &c.

One day the king invited most
All of his subjects to a roast,
For half his wives gave up the ghost,
The King of the Cannibal Islands.
Of fifty wives he was bereft,
And so he had but fifty left,
He said with them he would make shift,
So for a gorge all set off swift.
The fifty dead ones were roasted soon,
And all demolished before the noon,
And a lot of chiefs vowed to have soon
The King of the Cannibal Islands.
			Hokee pokee, &c.

When they had done, and the bones pick'd clean,
They all began to dance, I ween;
The fifty wives slipped out unseen,
	From the King of the Cannibal Islands.
He turning round, soon missed them all,
So for his wives began to bawl,
But not one answered to his call,
He sprung out through the muddy wall ;
Then into the woods he went with grief.
And found each queen 'long with a chief,
And swore he'd Macadamise every thief,
The King of the Cannibal Islands
			Hokee pokee, &c.

He sent for all his gnards with knives,
To put an end to all their lives,
The fifty chiefs and fifty wives—
	The King of the Cannibal Islands.
These cannibal slaveys then begun
Carving their heads off, one by one;
And the king he laughed to see the fun,
Then jumped into bed when all was done ;
And every night when he's asleep.
His headless wives and chiefs all creep,
And roll upon him in a heap,
The King of the Cannibal Islands.
			Hokee pokee,&c.

Saturday Morning, September 18,1858.The last SPEECH, Confession, and dying Words, of
the Bogs, who were burnt in the Pleasance. on Monday
the 25th of May, 1767. For the horrid Crime of
Blood-sucking  A FARCE.

HOW do you think your works will after thrive?
What cruelly to burn us all alive ?
Had we been Porcupines, I mean Hedge-hogs,
Our stobs might hurt you ; but we're only Bogs;
We little room took from you, we are sure,
In corner of your drawers slept secure :
The sucking of your blood was all our crime;
No tales we told, nor spoke one word in time.
The king himself cannot drive us from him,
For in St James's we are very common;
Because, as Snakes, we still creep out at night;
And oft destroyed by the candle light.
You know we are not capable of treason,              

Destroy us ! that's void of sense and reason.
Our honest land-lord, whose house we possest,
Laments us not, 'cause we disturb'd his rest.

Tho' we were innocent of all the strife,
Occasion'd by the landlord and his wife;
No advocates we had our cause to plead :
Seek no revenge for us, since we are dead.
Unhappy was the day this man was born,
The rich despise him, now the public scorn.

But why was we destroy'd on his account,                                  '
our crimes to his could never sure amount;
Had he been mild, and in his nature calm,
We ne'er had been committed to this flame.
But oh! alas! we can get no redress,
We here must suffer, tho' our crimes Be left.
This multitude on as would have no pity,
So here we leave our blood upon the city;
But we exist not; this ends all our pain,
And greater punishment he must sustain.
The wicked crowd, who saw us thus destroy'd,
Look'd careless on and not the least annoy'd.
Altho' our house was burn'd about our ears,
None to assist us in the least appears:
O cruel land-lord, by the crowd thus scorn'd,
The costly furniture your house adorn'd,

No more in your apartment now appears,
Tho' all Was new within these seven years.
These is not one your quarrel will excuse,
Although the whole is in the public news
It sure Was shocking to behold the splutter;
Think on the fate of the well tasted butter,
Which an honest man there thought to've preserv'd
But by the mob redic'lously was serv'd ;
They took it from him, thrust it in the flame,
Happy for him his fate was not the same;
The butter in a moment took the blaze,
The man elcap'd, because he had more days.
Think. O thou cruel landlord of our fate,
We hope you ne'er will go so gray a-gate.T H E

LODGER'S COME.

THIS POPULAR SONG CAN ALWAYS be HAD POET'S BOX,
OVERGATE, DUNDEE,

One night I wanted lodgings in a country town,
And to a cozy  cottage I  was led,
When the landlady informed  me, as her lodger was away,
She'd agred that I should  take the lodger's bed.
Divested of my clothing,  I soon sought the snowy sheets,
Where fatigue soon sound expression in  snore,
When my dreams were soon diespelled,   for I heard the 
lady's voice,
As she whispered through the key-hole of the   door--

CHORUS.

I'm sorry to disturb yon, but the lodger's come.
I'm not at all astonished that you look so glum;
You'se a stranger, but don't you know   so I think you'd
better go,
For you coldn't think of stopping now the lodger's come

These words ran in my head  as all the night  I wlked the
streets.
Till by  the early  tran  I  cam to town,
When having told a lot of pels   assembled  as the   club,
Not one of them cnuld keep their laughter dowm.
The phrase became a catch-word, I could hear it every-
where,
As the   Yanks remark, I   gave myself  away:
If my pals should even see me with with a girl upon my-
arm,
While one wold march her off, the  rest would say--

Chorus.

One evening   at the "Cri," I met  a charmer of a girl.
Having nothing els to do, saw her home;
We had  a bottle of the very finest hrandy,
And we drank each other's health in crystal foam.
I lent the dear a fiver, and she thanked me for the loan.
And on my breast she laid her golden head,
When I felt myself flung out into the passage like a
ahot,
And a six-foot man confronted  me and said—Chorus.TO J*** C***** A SOUTHRON,

SOJOURNIN' AT EDINBURGH,
ON RECEIVIN'   HIS INVITATION  TO  AULD   REEKIE.

H O W sair a task wi' Doubt to wrestle!
Sax hours I've had your kind Epistle,
An' done nocht syne but fidge an' fisle
About the matter;
Fain would I fuff" dour Care a whissle,
An' oure the water.

' Hap aff", ye dog!' says Inclination,
' An' loup the dyke o' Dubitation;
' A fit like your's will fin' a station—'
' Haud, haud ye there
' Whelpie!' cries cauld Consideration,
' Loup an' ye daur.'

Hingin' my lugs— clean ourpowerit—
I heard the coof, an' down I cowrit;
When Glee row'd in, an' rarely stourit,
An' clappit me;—
' The cranreuch-facit carl is sourit,—
' Ye's gang,' quo' he ;

' An' as for Doubt, the menseless bear,
' I'll quarter him on crabbit Care,
' An t' ane may grunt, and t' ither rair—
Nor fin' remead:
' Frien'ship will never fret him sair,
' If baith gang dead.'

An' sae, my Johnnie! now ye hae me,—
Ta'en aff the horns o' this dilemma,
An affskip ne'er sic transport gae me,
Syne I were shellit;
An' here, if fausehood ourlay me,
May l be fellit!

Baresit I'd tramp through moss an' heather,
The snellest day, to see anither
Like ye, an' ane that ca's ye brither—
Rab o' your ilk;—
Twa chaps wha mens'd ae dad an' mither,
An' souk'd ae milk.

Aweel! ye are a couthie kiddy,
Not maukin-brainit—dorty—giddy,
But stalwart ever—ripe an' riddy
In a' that s kind;
Which fairly prieves frae Worth's ain smiddy
Your weel-wrought mind:

An' speaks a heart o' leesome mettle,
Humanity aye lo'es to pettle,
Keepin' it still i' halesome fettle—
Feckfu' and stark;
Till Death shall your last daurk settle,
An stap your wark.

As ane wha's dowff amang the mony—
Be I first stappit, gentle Johnnie !
An' while there's left a screed o' ony
O' Truth's web en',
Time shall for ye leuk blithe an' bonnie
An' be your frien'.

Some bodies ne'er cast aff the bairn,
Some heads are saft as tauted yarn,
Some hearts are hard as stane or airn—
An' lost to guid :
Frae ye the gifts they a' might learn
O' flesh an' bluid.

Leeze me on Life, when—thus dispellin
The murky cluds on joyance fallin—
It gies ane hearts like your's to dwell in
Tiends an' rent free,
Wi' thack an' rape—a sunny hallan—
An' sowps o' brie !

Leeze me on Lifewi' this estate,
An' blethrin' Wealth may tak the gate ;
I'll crack auld jouks at sic a rate
This thretty year,
That Age shall thraw me down to Fate
Better for wear.

An' when thase years were dead an' gane,
I wad na, Jock! be left my lane ;
Nor wad I then be fidgin' fain
For ither faces;
Content t' hae reach'd the winnin' stane
O' this warl's races.


To sic a foughten chiel as me,
Ayont—what can Existence gie,
Than oure its course to bear the gree
Despite o'a'—
For Love an' Fortune crossit me
An' swoor my fa' ?

Brunstane therefore—Na, o' my faith,
They are na worth sae deep an aith;
Let them pack up their gab an' graith
An' aff to-----,
Where, could I lig atween 'em baith,
I wad na dwell.

Wae's me! that gall should be infusit
In this to you! Douce Judgment rues it:
But huntit hard, and sair abusit,
An' kept at bay,—
The stricken deer's for a' excusit
He does that day.'

Swith! Deil-ma-care—Ye Consequences !
I'll fash mysell wi' nae defences,
But speak my min' on a' pretences
That stowlins crawl-
To cheat puir bodies o' their senses
An' kill their saul.

I cast my pity to a fool,
My scorn to Slav'ry's bluntie snool,
An' for Corruption's fylit tool—
I'd be a helper
To sneck him i' the doukin-stool,
Or's droddum-skelper.

But there is ane aboon the core,
Wi' whom I lang to hae a splore,
Ye've knawn me blaud the saunt before,
An' ken his rant,—
I mean that son o' Babel's w—e
Religious Cant.

The baser airts o' ilka kin
that squattle human heads within,
Sense an' Discretion always fin'
An e'e to watch ;
But black Hypocrisy's a sin
They canna match.

O gie me a nine-tailit whip,
Wi' elback room to clink him up,
An' if, before I gang to sup,
He has na swat,
An' drank the penitential cup,—
I'll eat the cat.

' Eat an' be'-----Lord! wha's he that's speakin'?
Tis Kirkcraft sure, his Clootie seekin ;
Ay, there he's through my winnock keekin;—
' Auld Nick's na ben !
'He's by some lowin ingle reekin
' Wi' halier men.'

Forgie my saftness, fier endearit!
Sinners like me may weel be fearit,
When sic a tongue, an' e'en sae bleerit,
Ply ane wi' ither:
Aiblins 'twas Satan's sell appearit.
An' nocht his brither.

A feg for Nick—Ins bastard brither —
His blastie dad—his blastie mither—
His kith an' kin—an' ev'ry ither
That harries Man ;—
May they be damnit a' thegither—
The hale clan!

Then what a warl' this wad be
Kinttlit her lane by Charity,
Ye surely ken as weel as me—
Or rather better,
Guidwill to Man' an' Johnnie gree
E'en to the letter.

Lang may ye live to cheer us a',
An' Heal as lang preserve ye braw!
sae, sneckin' now my clav'rin' jaw,
I stap my clack;
Which, if t' hae grumplit ye ava,
Ye'll trunnle back.

J***  A*******^

J. AND R. CHILDS, PRINTERS, BUNGAY.WHERE DID YOU GET

THAT HAT,

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Can he had at the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.

The way I came to wear this hat
Is very strange and funny,
Grandfather died and left to me
His property and money.
And when the will  it was read out,
It told me straight and flat,
That if I had the money,
I must always wear this hat.

CHORUS.

Where did you get that hat,
Where did you get that tile,
And isn't it a nobby one,
And what a proper style.
I should like to have one
Just the same as that;
Where'er I go they shout, Hulloa,
Where did you get that hat.

If I go to the opera,
In  the opera season,
People stand and stare at  me,
Without the slightest reason.
And if I go to a concert hall,
To have a jolly spree,
These's some   me in the building
Is sure to say to me-—

At twenty-one I thought I would
To my sweetheart get married,
For all the neighbours in our street
Said too long we had tarried.
So off we went to church,
Determined to be wed,
The ceremony started,
When the pearson to me said-BANKS OF

SWEET DUNDEE

It's of a farmer's daughter,
So beautiful I'm told,
Her parents died and left her,
Five hundred pounds in gold,
She lived with her uncle,
The cause of all her woe,
And yon soon shall hear this maiden fair,
Did prove his overthrow.

Her uncle had a ploughboy,
Young Mary loved full well,
And in her uncle's garden,
Their tales of love would tell.
And there was a wealthy squire.
Who often came her to see,
But still she loved her plough-boy,
On the banks of sweet Dundee.

It was one summer's morning.
Her uncle went straightway,
He knocked at her bedroom door,
And thus to her did say,
Come rise up, pretty maiden,
A lady you may be,
The squire's waiting for you,
On the banks of sweet Dundee.

A fig for all your squires,
Your lords and dukes likewise,
My William's hand appears to me,
Like diamonds in my eyes,
Begone unruly female,
Yon ne'er shall happy be,     
For I mean to banish William,
From the banks of sweet Dundee.

Her uncle and the squire,
Rode out one summer's day,
Young William he's in favour,
Her uncle he did say,
Indeed! 'tis my intention,
To tie him to a tree,
Or else to bribe the pressgang,
On the banks of sweet Dundee,

The pressgang came to William,
When he was all alone,
He boldly fought for liberty,
But there were three to one,
The blood did flow in torrents,
Come kill me now said he,
I would rather die for Mary,
On the banks of sweet Dundee

This maid was one day walking,
Lamenting for her love,
She met the wealthy squire,
Down in her uncle's grove,
He put his arms around her,

SMELL! SMELL!

HIS BREATH!

E'er the tea party it had begun,
I eat an onion—only one,
Folks held their noses seemed ill at ease.
Stirred to and fro, made remarks like
these—

Just smell his breath, do smell his breath,
Just take one  sniff, if you wish for
sudden death,
Then in a rage, one big fellow cried,
Here's  a cake, for heaven's  sake, go
outside,                        [breath I
And change your breath, and change your
Fain would I linger yet must be gone,
Leaving those custards all alone,
Sadly I find my way to the door,
Loud beats my heart as the   shoe-
blacks roar.—

Just smell his breath, do smell his breath
One little sniff is enough to cause sud-
den death,
Folks made a rush for the other side,
Hurrying, scurrying, this they cried,
Do change your breath, oh! change your
breath!

BANKS OF DUNDEE. [CONTINUED]

Stand off! base man, said she,
You sent the only lad I love,
From the banks of sweet Dundee.

He clasped his arms around her,
And tried to throw her down,
Two pistols and a sword she spied,
Beneath his morning gown,
Young Mary took the weapons,
His sword he used so free,
But she did fire and shot the squire,
On the banks of sweet Dundee.

Her uncle overheard the noise,
He hastened to the ground.
Since you have killed the squire,
I'll give you your death wound,
Stand off, then said young Mary,
Undaunted I will be,
The trigger she drew and her uncle slew,
On the banks of sweet Dundee.

The doctor soon was sent for,
A man of noted skill.
Likewise came his lawyer.
For him to make his will,
He willed his gold to Mary,
Who fought so manfully,
And now she lives quite happy,
On the banks of sweet Dundee.CHILD

With Three

FATHERS,

You young lads and lasses draw near for a while,
And I'll sing yon a song that may cause you to smile,
Ab at a young man who a fair maid beguiled,
And how she obtained three fathers for her child,
	To my redly fal the di do, redly fal the day

Not far from this place lived a sporting young blade,
And  he fell in love with a comely young maid,
He said her he  loved, she believed sincere,
But what followed after you quickly shall hear.

When eight months were over and nine months were
	gone.
This pretty fair damsel she had a young son,
It is the picture of its father the women all cried,
There's his eyes, nose, and mouth, he cannot deny it.

She sent for that young man to come speedily
For to see  his young son , when he made this reply,
I never  had dealings with her in my time,
Let her send for its father, the child's none of mine

Then she summoned him up in a very short while.
Determined to make him father the child
He bribed   two young men who did  solemely swear ,
That all three of them kept company with that fa[ ].

O then says the Bailie, that alters the case,
Amongst you you've brought this young girl to disgrace,
To support her young baby the Bailie did say,
Two and Sixpence a week each of you will have to pay.

0, Bailie, O, Bailie, the two witnesses did cry,
What  we said about the girl we confess was a lie.
A man or  woman, for us, Sir, she may be.
Of the hall-crown now we hope you'll let us go free.

You must pay for the child, for according to law,
You've confessed to the act and I cannot withdraw,
You may all now go home and put up with your lot,
Young woman three fathers for your child you ve got.

51

Down by the

OLD

Mill Stream.



You must know that my uncle is a farmer,
Keeps a large farm in the west,
Whi e staying there I met a little charmer,
And many's a time I caressed
That girl so fair, with nut-brown hair,
Her equal ne'er was seen,
And where I met this little charmer
Was down by the old mill stream.

CHORUS.

Down by the old mill stream,
There many happy hours I have seen,
Strolling day by day we passed the time
away
Down by the old mill stream.

Her father was the owner of a dairy,
Her brother worked the plough,
And whi e I used to roam with little Mary,
Her mother would milk the cow.
But her father said, we should not wed,
Wh'ch I thought rather mean;
As she could not be my wife she said she'd
end her life,
By drowning in the old mill stream.

How the old man laughed at his daughter,
Saying, I don't believe a word that you say
But when he saw her struggling in the water
He exclaimed, Do save her, pray.
But it was too late, she had met her fate,
Oh, what a terrible scene!
The old man cried as the neighbours tried
To pull her out of the stream.

At last they got her out of the water,
And some of the neighbours said,
Oh, Brown, you've been the ruin of your
	daughter.
For the girl is really dead.
He tore his hair, gave way to despair,
Ran away, never more was seen,
And now I'm told the dairy is sold
That stood by the old mill stream,SATYR

Upon ALLAN  RAMSAY,

Occasioned upon a Report of his translating H 0 R ACE.

D----d brazen Face, how could  you

(hope

To imitate Horatian Strain,
A Labour too refin'd for Pope;
A Task which puzzel'd Prior's Pen.
Brains blown to Foam, or sunk in Mud,
Make, Works too airy, or too dull,

Then all thy Medley  Lines, conclude



Have flowed from a confused Skull.
None think it prudent Sense or Wit
To deviate from one's proper Road,
Since Nature made thee only fit,
For Wigs, and not for Verse by G--d : 
But if in Spite of ev'ry Rule
Of Poetry and common Sense,
Thou wilt insist and play the Fool,
And plague us with thy Impudence.
Yet for the Sake of Heaven, at least,
One curst Impiety forbear ;
Touch not the Ashes laid to rest ;
Let Horace  sleep, his   Labours spare.CUDDY  PEGGY.
COPIES CAN BE HAD  AT 190 AND 192 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.

In the high town of Gala lived auld Peggy Tinlin,

Wha was blessed wi' content, though at times took to grumblin'; 

Her calling in life was provisions to hawk,

And David, her cud, bore them a' on his back !

Each morning they marched to their daily employ,

Nae task did they think it, but rather a joy ;
And David jogged on wi' his weel-laden creels,
While Peggy half-bent hirpled on at his heels.

Frae morning to micht thus wandered alane, 

But aye at the dusk o' the gloamin' cam' hame;

And when Peggy had selt aff the guids o' her pack,

Then she mounted astride and rode hame on his back.

For mony a lang year thus they toiled on thegither,

And the langer they toiled they grew fonder o' ither,

For David shr seldom had reason to flog,

Thongh gently she touched him at times wi' the brogue,
But it happened a'e day that poor David took ill,
Which the heart o' auld Peggy wi' sadness did fill,
And a sorrowfu' tear filled the auld body's e'.
As she thocht tae hersel' puir David wad dee;

And seeing him placed in this helpless condition,

She thocht it her duty to get a physician,

So away for that purpose she hurriedly set,

When just on the way she the minister met.

" Well. Margaret! " he said, " I hope you are well."

" I thank you," said Peggy, " I'm gaily mysel' ;  

But I'm sorry to say oor David's no' weel, 

 An I'm just gaun away to get medical skill."

"Indeed, to hear that I'm exceedingly sorry,   

But, if spared, I'll come down and see him to-morrow,"

So wi' that Peggy bowed and speedily withdrew,

Syne awa' like the wind on her errand she flew,

The doctor came prompt at auld Peggy's request.
Thinkin' a' the road up what he might suggest 
So his patient wi' skill he minutely surveyed.
And then shook his head and reluctantly said ! -
" His case it is bad—nay, hopeless I doubt-
But I'll try what I can to bring him about."
So he blistered and bled him and gave him a dose. 

O' the best o' strong physic, as one might suppose,

And these means they were blest to bring David relief,

And to ease at the same time the auld body's grief,

For as David grew  weel her spirits grew licht,

And her e'e, lichtly dimmed, shone wonderfu' bricht,

The minister, who to his word ever true,

Come clown the next day as he promised to do,

On purpose, no doubt, as a matter of course,

To see whether David was better or worse.

" Well, Margaret," he said, " how is David to-day? "
" Deed, sir, he's some better, I'm happy to say ; 

The doctor's been here, and used every means, 

And to outward appearance some better he seems."
" I'm glad to hear that; I hope he'll recover,
And that both may be spared a while to each other."
" Deed, sir, I'm glad and thankfu' atweel.
For little I thocht to have seen him sae weel ; 

But come in sir, and rest you a bit,"

" Oh ! thanks."'said he, " I scarcely must sit,
But, if it's convenient, with David I'll pray."

"Lord bless me, sir, what on earth do you say ?"

" I'll pray with your husband that's now in distress."

" The deil's in the man—would you pray for an ass ?"                   

" Oh, fie ! Margaret, he ! why don't you think shame

To call your poor husband by such a vile name ? "

" My husband !— I daursay the minister's mad— 

It's mony a year sin' my husband was dead,"

" Oh, Margaret, you don't mean to say it is true?"
" It's as true as this minute I'm speaking to you,"

"Then is David your son or relation in blood?"

" Guid gracious'! the man? isn't David the cud?"
'A cud!" cried the parson; "aye, a cuddy! " cried she;

"Sic a farce to compare a dumb creatur' to me."

" Oh, Margaret! I find I've been quite mistaken,
I, David your cud for you husband have taken,

So pardon what I've in my ignorance said

And the awkward mistake into which I've been led."
So the priest no longer protracted his stay,

But wi' reverence bowed, and syne went away,

And laughed a' the road hame till nearly distracted,
To think sic a part in the drama he acted.BANKS OF TAY.

Air—" Roslin Castle."

Written and composed by ROBERT CARMICHAEL,
Lundin Mill, near Largo, Fifeshire.

NEW SONGS OUT EVERY WEEK.

This Popular New Song can always be had at the Poets' Box.

By Grampians' towering mountains high,
Whose rocky summits skirt the sky ;
Wild rolls the queen of Scotia's floods,
Adorned by Athole's ancient woods.
Along their winding walks in spring,
How sweet to hear the wild birds sing ;
At peep of dawn, how sweet to stray,
Adown the bonnie Banks of Tay.

Here summer's sun, with golden gleams,
Gilds mountain tops, the woods, the streams ;
Before his early piercing ray
The wreaths of white mist wheel away,
Revealing all the lovely scene,
The woods, thick clothed in foliage green,
High waving o'er the wild rocks grey
Upon the bonnie Banks of Tay.

Enchanting scenes! how oft in view
To fancy's eye, fresh blooming new, 
The flowing river, mountain strath,
The winding of each woodland path ;
And dearer still, fond friendship's ties,
And true love's flame, that never dies;
All these were mine—now, far away,
I mourn the bonnie Banks of Tay.Bauldy Buchanan.

This flying seheet. can only be  had from the Poet, out of his
Box, 130 Gallowgate Street, Glasgow. It is one of the finest
songs of the day.

                         

                        

                          AIR-Knowledge is power.

Oh, wha hasna heard tell o' blyth Bauldie Buchanan,

A hale,hearty carle,o' some sixty year's stan'nin ;

Gae search the hale kintra, frae Lanark to Lunnon,
Ye'll scarce fin' the match o' blythe Bauldie Buchanan.

For Bauldie's sae crackie, an' Bauldie's sae canty,

A frame o' threescore wi' a spirit o' twenty ;

 

Wi' his auld farrant tales, an' his joking an' funnin',
A rich an' rare treat is blythe Bauldie Buchanan.

Blyth Bauldy Buchanan's a wonderfu' drinker
O knowledge—for he's a great reader an' thinker ;

There's scarcely an' author frae Bentham tae Bunyan,

But has been run dry by blythe Bauldy Buchanan.

He kens a'the courses an' names o' the planets,

The secret manouvres o' courts an' o' senates ;

Can tell you the day Babel tower was begun on,
Sae deep read in beuks is blythe Bauldy Buchanan.

He can play on the bagpipe, the flute and the fiddle,
Explain ony text, or expound ony riddle;
At deep calculation, at drawing an' planin',
There's nae body equal tae blythe Bauldy Buchanan.
He kens how the negroes are black an' thick lippet,
An' what makes the Hottentot maid sae big hippet ;
How the women in Turkey sae muckle are run on,
Sae versed in sic matters is Bauldy Buchanan.

How the English like beer an' the Scotch like their whisky,
How Frenchmen are temperate, lively  an' frisky;
How the Turks are sae grave, and the Greeks are sae cunin',
Can a' be explained by  bly the Bauldy Buchanan.

An' mair than a' that, he can trace out the cause,

O rain an' fair weather,o' frost an' o' thaws ;

An' what keeps the earth on its orbit still runin',

Sae wonderfu' learned is blythe Bauldy Buchanan.

When round his fireside neighbours meet in the gloamin',

An' hear him describe the auld Greeks an' the Romans;

How they battled an' fought without musket or cannon, 

The folks glower wi' wonder at blythe Bauldy Buchanan.

Or when he descends frae the grave tae the witty,

Or tells some queer stories, or sings some queer ditty,

Wi' his poetry, pleasantry, puzzling and punnin',

Their sides are made sair wae wi' blythe Bauldy Buchanan.

But o' a' the attractions that Bauldy possesses,

His greatest attraction's are twa bonny lasses ; 

'Mang a' the fine leddys, frae Crail tae Clackmanan,
There's nane can match Bella an' Betty Buchanan.
For, O, they are sae clever, sae frank an' sae furthy,

Sae bonny, sae blooming, sae wise an' sae worthy, 

They keep the hale lads in the parish a' runnin',
An' striving for Bella an' Betty Buchanan.

Come to the Box ; it is the boast and pride of millions.
Saturday, 15th March 1851.BONNE ELLERSLIE.

AIR-The Scarlet Flower.

She's gentle as the zepher,
That sips of every sweet;
She's fairer than the fairest lily
In nature's soft retreat.
Her eyes are like the crystle brook,
As bright and clear to see;
Her lips outshine the scarlet flower       
Of bonnie Ellerslie.

Oh! were my love a blossom
When summer skies depart,
I'd plant her in my bossom,
Her garden near my heart;
And oft I'd kiss her balmy lips
So beautiful to see,
That far outshines the scarlet flower
Of bonnie Ellerslie.

Might I be King o' Scotland's throne
An' a' the world beside;
Right glad I'd gie my crown to her,
That lovely made my bride.
The gate of heaven is at her lip,
Denied, alas! to me;
That lip which shames the scarlet flower
Of bonnie Ellerslie.

All popular songs of the day to be hadBonnie Scotland
I Adore Thee.


Bonnie Scotland ! I adore thee
Now I wander sadly o'er thee,
Thy enchantments will restore me
Bonnie, bonnie Scotand !
Mid the rays of summer weather
Sweetly blooms thy mountain   
heather;
Love and beauty sport together;
Bonnie bonnie Scotland Oh

Bonnie Scotland I adore thee
Now I wander gladly o'er thee
Thy enchantments will restore me
Bonnie bonnie Scotland !
Bonnie Scotland! land of grandeur
Where the sparkling streams
meander ;
Here will I delight to wander,
Bonnie bonnie Scotland!

Thou art dearest to me ever
From my bosom banish'd never;
Ne'er again we hope to sever
Bonnie bonnie Scotland Oh
Bonnie Scotland;  I adore thee ;
Now I wander gladly o'er thee
Thy enchantments will restore me
Bonnie bonnie Scotland!An Exellent  \ill\  \ill\d. bonny
JEAN of ABERDEEN. 

MY Bonny Jean long have I been,
      a seeking thee from Morn to Ev'n,
Thy boony Face so full of Grace,
thy like is not in Aberdeen.

 2
          I was as brisk as auy Lad, 

    when first thy Bonny Face I saw,   
Come sit thee down my bonny Maid. 
and blow to me'a Kiss or two,

   A Kiss or two if I should give,

I know not how it might be taen,
For suddenly youid me betray,
'tis  better for to ly alane.

                     4

First you must seek and I say nay,

you know a Womans modestie, 

    Come slid your Hand  about my Neck,     

when I cry cease let me not  be.

                        5

What would I give I tell the Truth, 
for one Kiss of thee my Dear,

For all the pleasures of this Earth.
there's nothing with thee can compare

6                         

Thy Cheery Cheeks thy Coal Black Hair,

a briker Lass was never seen,       \ill\,
There'ss none with thee that can compare

in Edinburgh or Aberdeen.

7
When first  thy bbn'ny Face I saw,

such charming Eyes were never seen,
T\ill\  art the true Prospect of Grace

thy like is not in Aberdeen,

Thy Beauty fair doth me ensnare,
since e're I saw thy Lovely Face,
Therefore my Dear you need not fear
to  grant to me that charming Bless.

Since I have House and Lands enough,
to Portion me with any Man, 

If you should take your Word and rue,
what would become of Jeany then.

If you have Lands at your Command, e,
a good House Wife you then will q

I  think then for the Priest well send,
and then my Dear well Married be.

Bonny Jean where have ye been,

and thy Minnie seeking thee,
I have been down in yonder Green,
       Kissing Jockie and Jockie Me.

My Minny  send me to the Wall

the Night was Dark I could not see,
my Foot did slip and then I fell,
     and Jackie fell on thee top of me,

Bonny Jean thou goes wi' Bairn,     
says the Lad, how can that be,

For she lay never a Night with me,
but Six and Seven Four and Three.

But if he be Cuning I'll be Crafty,
and if he be crafty I'll be flee,

If  he were the Bonniest Lad in all the town
he's ne'er get another Barin will me.Bonny Mary of

ARGYLE.

I have heard the mavis singing.
Its love song to the morn,
I have seen the dew-drop clinging
To the rose just newly born ;
But a sweeter song has cheered me
At the evening's gentlo close,
And Ive seen an eye still brighter
Than the dew-drop on the rose.
Twas thy voice, my gentle Mary
And thy artless winning smile,
That mada this world an Eden,
Bonnie Mary of Argyle

Tho 'thy thy voice may lose its sweetness
And thine eye its brightness too,
Tho thy step may lose its swiftness
And thine hair its sunny hue;
Still to me thou wilt be bearer
Than all the world shall own ;
I have loved thee for thy beauty
But not for that alone:
I have watched thy heart dear Mary    
And its doolness was the wile,
That has made thee mine for ever
Bonnie Mary of Argyle

Printed and Sold by JAS. LINDSAY, Whole-
sale Stationer, &c., 11 King Street, (City,)Glas-
gow. Upwards of 5000 different sorts always on
hand; also, a great variety of Picture Books,
Song Books, Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers
Supplied on Liberal Terms.

Soiree, and Concert, Bill Cards, Large
Posting and Hand Bills, Invoice Tops,
Circulars, Businsss and  Fancy Cards,
Society Articles, Pamphlets,and every
description of Letterpress Printing done
cheaply, neatly, and expeditiously.

Lithographing, Bookbinding &c. &c.

40BRAES   OF   YARROW.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies can always be had in the Poet's Box, [80] London Street, Glasgow.

TUNE—Original.

A. 	"BUSK ye, busk ye, my bonnie, bonnie bride !
	Busk ye, busk ye, my winsome marrow !
	Busk ye, busk ye, my bonnie, bonnie bride,
	And think nae mair of the braes of Yarrow.
B. 	"Where gat ye that bonnie, bonnie bride,
	Where gat ye that winsome marrow ?"
A. 	" I get her whare I daurna weel be seen,
	Puing the birks on the braes of Yarrow,
	Weip not weip not, my bonnie, bonnie bride,
	Weip not weip not, my winsome marrow !
	Nor let thy heart lament to leive
	Puing the birks on the braes of Yarrow,
B. 	" Why does she weip, thy bonnie, bonnie bride,
	Why does she weip, thy winsome marrow,
	And why daur ye nae mair be seen,
	Puing the birks on the braes of Yarrow.

A. 	" Lang maun she weip, lang maun she, maun she weip,
	Lang maun she weip wi' dule and sorrow,
	And lang maun I nae mair weel be seen
	Puing the birks on the braes of Yarrow.

	For she has tint her luver, luver deir,
	Her luver deir, the cause of sorrow ;
	And I ha'e slain the comeliest swain
	That e'er pu'd birks on the braes of Yarrow.

	Why runs thy stream, O Yarrow. Yarrow, red,
	Why on thy braes heard the voice of sorrow:
	And why yon melancholious weids,
	Hung on the bonnie birks of Yarrow ?

	What's yonder floats on the rueful, rueful flude?
	What's yonder floats ?—Oh, dule and sorrow !
	"Tis he, the comely swain I slew
	Upon the dulefu" braes of Yarrow.

	Wash, oh wash his wounds, his wounds in tears,
	His wounds in tears o' dule and sorrow;
	And wrap his limbs in mourning weids.
	And lay him on the banks of Yarrow.

	Then build, then build, ye sisters, sisters, sad,
	Ye sisters sad, his tomb wi' sorrow,
	And weip around, in waeful wise,
	His hapless fate on the braes of Yarrow!

	Curse ye, curse ye, his useless, useless shield,
	The arm that wrocht the deed of sorrow,
	The fatal spier that pierced his briest,
	His comely briest on the braes of Yarrow !

	Did I not warn thee not to, not to love,
	And warn from fight ? But. to my sorrow,
	Too rashly bold, a stronger arm thou met'st,
	Thou met'st, and fell on the braes of Yarrow.

	Sweit smells the birk; green grows, green grows the grass
	Yellow on Yarrow's braes the gowan;
	Fair hangs the apple frae the rock;
	Sweit the wave of Yarrow flowen !

	Flows Yarrow sweit ? as sweit, as sweit flows Tweed ;
	As green its grass; its gowan as yellow ;
	As sweit smells on its braes the birk ;
	The apple from its rock as mellow !

	Fair was thy love, fair, fair, indeed, thy love !
	In flowery bands thou didst him fetter;
	Though he was fair, and well-beloved again,
	Than me he never loved thee better.


	Busk ye. then, busk, my bonnie, bonnie bride!
	Busk ye, busk ye, my winsome marrow;
	Busk ye, and lo'e me on the banks o' Tweed,
	And think nae mair on the braes of Yarrow."

	C. " How can I busk a bonnie, bonnie bride !
	How can I busk a winsome marrow;
	How can I lo'e him on the banks o' Tweed,
	That slew my love on the braes of Yarrow !

	Oh, Yarrow fields, may never, never rain,
	Nor dew the tender blossoms cover!
	For there was basely slain my love,
	My love, as he had been a lover.

	The boy put on his robes his robes of green,
	His purple vest—'twas my ain sewing;
	Ah, wretched me ! I little, little kenned,
	He was, in these, to meet his ruin.          

	The boy took out his milk-white, milk-white Steed,
	Unmindful of my dule and sorrow;
	But, ere the too-fa' of the nicht,
	He lay a corpse on the banks of Yarrow !

	Much I rejoiced, that waefu', waefu' day;
	I sang, my voice the woods returning;
	But, lang eare nicht, the spear was flowing,
	That slew my love, and left me mourning.

	What can my barbarous, barbarous father do,
	But with his cruel rage pursue me ?
	My lover's blude is on thy spear-
	How canst thou, barbarous man then woo me ?

	My happy sisters may be, may be proud,
	With cruel and ungentle scoffing-—
	May bid me seek on Yarrow braes,
	My luver nailed in his coffin.

	My brother Douglas may upraid,
	And strive with threatening words to muva me ;
	My luver's bluid is on thy spear-
	How canst thou ever bid me love thee ?

	Yes, yes prepare the bed, the bed of luve !
	With bridal sheets my body cover !
	Unbar, ye bridal mades, the door!
	Let in th expected husband lover!

	But who the expected husband, husband is?
	His hands, methinks are bathed in slaughter !
	Ah, me! what gastly spectre's yon,
	Comes, in his pale shroud, bleeding after ?

	Pale as he is, here lay him, lay him down;
	O lay his cold head on my pillow!    
	Take off, take off, these bridal weids!
	And crown my careful head with willow.

	Pale though thou art, yet best, yet best beloved,
	Oh, could my warmth to life restore thee!
	Yet lie all night between my breists—
	No youth lay ever there before thee!

	Pale, pale, indeed, oh lovely, lovely youth,
	Forgive, forgive so foul a slaughter,
	And lie all night between my breists,
	No youth shall ever lie there after!"

	A. " Return, return, O mournful, mournful bride !
	Return, and dry thy useless sorrow !
	Thy luver heids nocht of thy sighs;
	Ho lies a corpse on the braes of Yarrow."

	Saturday-morning. 2nd July 1870.Duncan Campbell.

My name is Duncan Campbell, from the shire of

Argyle ;

I have travelled this country for many a long mile ;
I have travelled through England and Ireland and a',
And the name I go under is bold Erin-go-Bragh.

One night in Auld Reekie, as I walked down the
street,

A saucy policeman I chanced to meet;

He glowered in my face and gave me some jaw,

Saying, " When came you over from Erin-go-Bragh ?"

I am not a Paddy, though Ireland I've seen
Nor am I a Paddy, though in Ireland I've been,
But  though I were a Paddy, that's naething ava,
There's many a bold hero from Erin-go-Bragh.

I know you are a Pat by the cut of your hair,

But you all turn Scotchmen as soon as you come

here.                                                                  

You have left your own country for breaking the law.    
We are seizing all strangers from Erin-go-Bragh.

Well though I were a Paddy,  and I knew it to be

     true

Or were I the devil, pray what's that to you ?

If it was not for that baton you hold in your paw,

I would show you a game played in Erin-go-Bragh.

Then a switch of black thorn I held in my fist,
Across his big body I made it to twist;
And the blood from his napper I quickly did draw,
I paid stock and interest for Erin-go-Bragh.

The people came round me like a flock of wild geese,
Saying, stop that d-----d  rascal, he has killed our

police,

And for one friend I had, I am sure he had twa,
It was very tight times with Erin-go-Bragh.

But I came to a wee boatie that sails on the Forth,
I packed up my all and steered for the north ;
Farewell to Auld Reekie, the police and a',
May the Devil be with you, said Erin-go-Bragh.

Come all ye brave fellows that hear of this song,
I don't care a farthing to where you belong,
For I'm from my shore in the Highlands so braw,
But I ne'er took ill when called Erin-go-Bragh.Green Grows the

R A S H E S

Written by Robert Burns.

Pitts Printer Toy and Marble Warehouse 6, Great
st Andrew street 7 dials

THERE's nought but care on ev'ry han
In every hour that passes O,
What fignisies the life of man,
An' twere na for the lesser O,

CHORUS,

Green grows the Rashes O.
Green grow the Rashes O;
The sweetest hours that e'er I spend
Are spent among the lasses O.

The warly race may riches chase,
An' riches still may fly them O !  
An'though at last they catch them fast
Their hearts can ne'er enjoy them O.
		Green grow &c.
But gie me a canny hour at e'en
My arms about my deary O !
An' warly cares and warly mien,
may a gae tapsalteerie O !
		Green grow &c,
For you sae douse Ye sneer at this,   .
Ye're nought but senseless asses O !
The wisest man the warl e'er saw
He dearly loved the lasses O,
		Green Grow, &c,
Auld Nature swears the lovely dears
Her noblest works she classes O !
Her prentice han she tried on men,
And then she made the lasses O !
		Green grow &c.

An  Explanation of the most dif-
ficult Sootch Words , Han, Hand-
Canny, Gentle, Mild. Tapsalsesrie-Top-
sy turvy. Sae Douse so wife,HIGHLAND MARY.



The " Castle of Montgomery" referred to in this beautiful
effusion was that of Collsfield, near Tarbolton. Mary
Campbell lived in that house as dairymaid. Though not a
beauty, she possessed a sweet temper and an obliging disposi-
tion, while her mental qualifications were of a high order.
" After a pretty long tract of the most ardent reciprocal
attachment, we met, says Burns, by appointment, on the
second Sabbath of May, in a sequestrated spot, by the banks
of the Ayr, where we spent a day in taking a farewell before
she should embark for the West Highlands to arrange matters
with her friends for a projected change of life." " This adieu,"
says an admirer of Burns, " was performed with all those
simple and striking ceremonies which rustic sentiment has
devised to prolong tender emotions, and to inspire awe.
The lovers stood on each side of a small purling brook ; they
laved their hands in its limped stream, and, holding a Bible
between them, pronounced their vows to be faithful to each
other." At the close of the following autumn Mary crossed
the sea to meet " the poet" at Greenock. Soon after getting
on shore she was seized with a malignant fever, which carried
her off before Burns could arrive to bid her a last farewell.
The remains of " Highland Mary" repose in the West
Churchyard of Greenock.

Ye banks and braes and streams around
The Castle o' Montgomery,
Green be your woods, and fair your flowers,
Your waters never drumlie !
There simmer first unfolds her robes,
An' there they longest tarry;
For there I took the last fareweel
O' my sweet Highland Mary.

How sweetly bloomed the gay green birk,
How rich the hawthorn's blossom,
As underneath their fragrant shade
I clasp'd her to my bosom !

The golden hours, on angel wings,
Flew o'er me and my deary;
For dear to me as light and life
Was my sweet Highland Mary.

Wi' mony a vow, and lock'd embrace,
Our parting was fu' tender;
An', pledging aft to meet again,
We tore oursel's asunder;
But, Oh ! fell Death's untimely frost,
That nipt my flower sae early !
Now green's the sod, and cauld's the clay
That wraps my Highland Mary.

Now cauld and pale, those rosy lips
I aft ha'e kissed fu' fondly !
An' closed for aye the sparkling eye
That looked on me sae kindly ;
An' mouldering now in silent dust
The heart that lo'ed me dearly !
But still within my bosom's core
Shall live my Highland Mary.JEANIE DEANS.



Music at JAS. S. KERr'S, 314 Paisley Rd.., Glasgow,

Far awa' frae bonnie Scotland,
I have often spent my time,
By the mountains, lakes, and valleys,
In some distant foreign clime.
There I'd sit and sometimes ponder.
'Midst their bright and varied scenes;
But my thoughts would always wander
To the hame o' Jeanie Deans.

CHORUS.

Here's to Auld Reekie, and its glorious Princes Street,
Here's to Auld Reekie, and its famous Arthur Seat;
Here's to Auld Reekie, and its grand Historic Scenes—
The hame of Scotland's bravest lass, my bonnie Jeanie
Deans.

Oft I see her sad and dreary,
Wi' tartan plaid and hame-spun gown ;
Broken-hearted, worn and weary,
Tramping on to London town.
Leaving those behind who missed her—
Those who know what true love means—
Seeking pardon for her sister,
Brave, true hearted, Jeanie Deans.

Fancy ofttimes brings before me,
Jeanie's simple, winsome style,
As she told me her sad, sad story,
When she met the great Argyle.
Hear her pleading in the garden,
Asking mercy from the Queen;
See her joy, she's got the pardon,
Brave, Victorious, Jeanie Deans.

" Jeanie woman " though departed,
We will keep the honoured name
Of one so true and loyal-hearted,
Written on the scroll of fame.
Sir Walter Scott immortalised you—
" Thou wer't one of nature's queens"—.
And in our hearts we'll ever praise you,
Gallant, Scottish, Jeanie Deans.An Excellent new Ballad,

eNTITuLED,

LEADER-HAUGHS and YAROW,

To its own proper Tune.

WHen Phœbus bright;   the Azure Skies

with golden Rayes enlightneth,
These things sublunar he espies,

Herbs Trees and plants, be quick' neth
Among all those be makes his choice

and gladly goes be thorow,
With radiant Beams, and silver Streams,

through Leader-haughs and Yarow.
2 When Aries the Day and Night

in equal length divideth.
Old frosty Saturn takes the flight

no longer he abideth :
Then Flora Queen with Mantle green

casts off her deadly Sorrow,
And vows to dwell with Ceres sell

in Leader-haughs and Yarow.

3   Pan playing with his Oaten Reed,
with Shepberds him attending,

Doth here resort their Flocks to seed
the Hills and Haughs commending ;

With Bottle, Bag, and Staff with Knag,
and all Singing good morrow ;

They swear no Field more Pleasure yields,
then Leader-haughs and Yarow.

4  One House there stands on Leader side
surmounting my   descriving,

With ease Rooms rare, and Windows clear,

like Dedalus contriving,
Men pesing by do often say,

in-South it hath no Marrow ;
It stands as fair on Leader Side,
as New wark does on Yarow,
5  A Mile below who lists to ride,

they'l hear the Mavis singing ;
Into St. Leonards Banks she'l bide,

sweet Birks her Head o'er hinging :
The Lintwhite loud, and Progne proud

with tender Throats and narrow
Into St. Leonard's Banks do sing

as sweetly as in Yarow
6 The Lapwing lilteth o'er the Lee

With nimble wings she Sporreth
  But vows she'l not come neer the Tree,

where Philomel resorteth
By break of Day the Lark can say

I'll bid you all Good morrow
I'll yout and yell for I may dwell

In Leader-haughs  and Yarow
7Park Wanton walls and Wodden Clough

The East and Wester Mainses
The Forrest of Lawder's fair enough,

the Corns are good in Blainslies ;
Where Oats are fine and sold by Kind

that if you search all thorow
Mearns, Buchan, Mar, none better are

then Leader-haughs and Yarow
In Burn-Miln Bog and Whitshed-shaw

the fearful Hare she haunteth ; (knows
Bridge-haugh and Broad-wood shell she

to the Chapell- Wood frequenteth

Yet When she irks to Kidslie Birks

she runs and sighs for Sorrow.
That she should leave sweet Laderhaughs

and cannot Win to Yarow
9 What sweeter Musick would you hear

Than Hounds and Beigles Crying
The Hare waits not but flees for Fear

their Hare Pursuits Desying
But yet her Strength it sails at length

no bielding can she borrow
At Haggs Cleckmaes nor Soreles-field

but longs to be at Yarow
For Rack-wood, Ring-wood, Rival, Aimer

still thinking for to view her
O'er Dub and Dyke o'er Seugh and syke

she'l Run the Fields all thorow,
Yet ends Her Dayes in Leader-haughs

and bids farewell to Yarow,
Thou Eastlingtoun and Coldingknows
Where Homes bad once commanding
And Drygrange with thy milke White Ews

twixt Tweed and Leader standing
The Birds that flies through Red Path Trees

And Gladswood banks all thorow
May chant and sing sweet Leader-haughs

and the bonny banks of Yarow
But Burn cannot his Grief asswage

While as his Days endureth
To see the Changes of this Age

Which Day and Time procureth.
For many a Place stands in Hard Case

Where Burns was blyth befarrow
With Homes that dwelt on Leader side,
and Scots thai dwelt in Yarow,

The Words of BURN the Violer,

WHat ? shall my, Viol silent be,
      or leave her wonted Scriding ? 
But choise some sadder Elogie,

no Sports and Mirds deriding .
It must be fain with lower Strain

then it was wont beforow
To sound the Praise of Leader- haughs

and the bonny Banks of Yarow :
But Floods have overflown the Banks,

the greenish haughs Disgracing,
And Trees in Woods grow thin in Ranks,

about the Fields defacing :
  For Waters waxes,   Woods doth waind,

more if  I could for Sorrow
In rural Verse I could rehearse :

of Leader-haughs and Yarow,
But Sighs and Sobs o'ersets my Breath

sore saltish Tears forth sending,
All Things sublunar here On Earth

are subject to an ending
So must my Song though somewhat long,
     yet late at Even and Morrow
I'll sigh and sing sweet Leader-haughs
and the bonny Banks of Yarow.
FINIS.Published by SIMMS & M'INTYRE, Donegull-street, Belfast.

MAGGIE LAUDER.

(Play up! quo she.)                                  (Weel done .' quo he.)

WHA  wadna be in love

Wi' bonnie Maggie Lauder ?
A Piper met her gaun to Fife,

And spier'd what was't they ca'd her ?
Right scornfully she answered him,

Begone, ye hallan-shaker!
Jog on your gate, you blather skate,

My name is Maggie Lauder.

Maggie, quo' he, and by my bags,
I'm sidgin' fain to see thee;

Sit down by me, my bonnie bird,
In troth I winna steer thee; 

For I'm a Piper to my trade,
My name is Rob the Ranter ;

    The lasses loup as they were daft,
        When I blaw up my chanter.

    Piper, quo' Meg, hae you your bags,
Or is your drone in order ?

    If you be Rob, I've heard o' you,

        Live ye upo' the border ?

    The lasses a', baith far and near,
Hae heard o' Rob the Ranter;
I'll shake my foot wi' right guid will,
Cin ye'll blaw up your chanter.

Then to his bags he. flew wi' speed,
About the drone he twisted;

    Meg up and wallop'd owre the green,
         Fur brawly she could frisk it.
    Weel done, quo' he ; play up, quo' she ;
         Weel bob'd, quo' Rob the Ranter ;
    It's worth my while to play, indeed,
When I hae sic a dancer.

    Weel hae you play'd your part, quo' Meg,
        Your cheeks are like the crimson;
There's nane in Scotland plays sae weel,

Sin we lost Habbie Simpson.
I've liv'd in Fife, baith maid and wife,

For ten years and a quarter;

Gin ye suld come to Anster fair,

Spier ye for Maggie Lauder,Massacre of Macpherson

PRICE  ONE PENNY.
Copies of this very-popular song can always be had  

in the Box, [ ] London Street, Glasgow

TUNE—Original.

Fhairson swore a feud against the clan Mactavish,

Marched into their land to murder and  to ravish,

For he did resolve to extirpate the vipers,

With four and twenty men and five and thirty pipers.

CHORUS

Too ran ach a' he,

Dal a gee a sorus,

Come a' rach an tuch,

 And that's a Gaelic chorus.

                         But when he had gone half way down Strath Canaan.
Of his fighting tail just three were remainin'—
These were all he had to back him in ta battle,
All the rest had gone off to drive ta cattle.



Fery coot, cried Fhairson, so my clan disgraced is,
Lad's, we'll need to fight before we touch the beasties.

Here's Mic-Mac-Methusaleh coming wi' his vassals,

Gillies seventy-three and sixty dhuine wassails.
Coot day to you, sir, are you not ta Fhairshon ?

Was you coming here to visit any person?

You're a plackguard, sir, it is now six hundred

Coot long years and more since my glen was plunder'd,



Fat is tat you say ?   Dare you cock your peaver ?
I will teach you, sir, fat is coot pehaviour—
You shall not exist for another day more,
I will shoot you, sir, or stap you with my claymore.



I am fery glad to learn what you mention,
Since I can prevent any such intention ;
So Mic-Mac-Methusaleh gave some warlike howls,
Drew his skhian-dhu and stuck it in his powels.



In this fery way tied ta faliant Fhairshon,

Who was always thought a superior person;

Fhairson had a son who married 'Noah's daughter,
And nearly spoiled ta Flood by drinking up ta water.

Which he would have done, I at least believe it,
Had ta mixture peen only half Glenlivet.
This is all my tale—sirs, I hope 'tis new 't ye !
Here's your fery good healths, and hang ta whusky tuty.

List of Newest Songs and Recitations.

The ruined cottage

Stump speech

Riding in a donkey car

Simple Simon

German band

Married to a mermaid

Beloved eye

Slap bang

The three fishers

It's wonderful how we do it

but we do
Poor little Jim
Bauldie, come hame
Boys that carry the hod
Champagne Charlie
As round the ring she goes
Noisy swell
Worn-out tile
Nod your head

I'll live as long as I can

Jemmy  Riddle

Johnny, I hardly knew ye

Land of green ginger

My bonnie wee wifie and I

Auld Robin the laird

Merry old Uncle Joe

Nanny that leeves next door

Rattling mare and I

Rothesay road

Row upon the stairs

Two in the morning

Wearing o' the green

Wee Joukeydaidles

Young man dressed in red

Fire, fire, fire

Jones' musical party

Kiss me, mother, ere

Star of Slaine     NETHER MILL GLEN.

By JAMES NIVEN, Author of " KINNINIE BRAES."
AIR—" Garland of Love."

I've wandered my ain native isle, Caledonia,
O'er moor and o'er mountain, through valley and fen,
But nae pleasure like those at the clear crystal fountain,
By the banks o' the Forth, in sweet Nether Mill Glen.

              Come, young man, when weary,
	Ne'er fret and look eerie,
Come drink of this fountain along with your deary;
The clear crystal fountain, 'twill make your heart cheery,
As it springs from the rocks in sweet Nether Mill Glen.

How pleasant, when summer unfolds her green mantle,
To view nature's gems a' so sprightly and gay ;
While the linnet, melodious, on the brier sits singing
A welcome return to the sweet month of May.

	Come, young man, when weary,
	Ne'er fret nor look eerie,
Come drink of this fountain along with your deary,
While the linnet so sweet, on the top o' yon briery,
Will welcome your visit to Nether Mill Glen.

June, with her fair blossoms so gay, busks the wild broum,
With her rich brilliant roses she decks our green bowers ;
The industrious honey bee 'mong them is humming,
Improving her time in the sunniest hours.

	Come, young man, when weary,
              Along with your deary,
While under these gay bowers nae foe shall come ne' er ye; 
The sound of industry constant shall cheer ye—
A's mirth and contentment in Nether Mill Glen.

May shines bright in youth, and June, in her loveliness,
To July brings beauties that soon fade away;
The rosie, wi' drooping head, weeps for youth and beauty fled,
But love is a flower that will never decay.

	Come, young man, when weary,        
	Ne'er fret nor look eerie,
Come drink of this fountain along with your deary;
Though beauty and youth's gane, love aye will be near ye,
To cherish your heart in sweet Nether Mill Glen.SCOTLAND

YET.

Gae bring my guid auld harp ance mair,
Gae bring it free and fast,

For I mauu sing anither sang

E'er a' my glee be past;
And trow ye, as I sing my lads

The burden o't shall be—

Auld Scotland's howes, and Scotland's knowes

 And Scotland's hills for me;

I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,

Wi' a' the honours three !

The heath waves wild upon her bills,

And foaming through her fells,
Her fountains sing o' freedom still,

As they dash down the dells!
And weel I lo'e the land, my lads,

That's girded by the sea,
Then Scotland's vales, and Scotland's dales,

And Scotland's hills for me,
I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,

Wi' a' the honours three !

The thistle wags upon the fields

Where Wallace bore his blade,
That gave her foeman'a dearest bi[  ],

To dye her auld grey plaid;
And looking to the lift, my lads.

He sang this doughty glee—             

Auld Scotland's rights, and Scotland's mights,

And Scotland's hills for me,
I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,

Wi' a' the honours three,

They tell o' lands wi' brichter skies,

Where freedom's voice ne'er rang,
Gie me the land where Ossian dwelt,
   And Coila's minstrel sang—
For I've nae skill o' lands, my lads

That kenna to be free—
Then Scotland's vales, and Scotland's dales,

And Scotland's bills for me,
I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,

Wi' a' the honours three.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and

Wholesale Stationer, 11 King Street, (City),

Glasgow.    Upwards of 5000 sorts always on

hand; also a great variety of Picture Books,

Song   Books,   Histories,  & c.     Shops   and

Hawkers supplied on Liberal Terms.

 Soiree and Bal  Cards, Large Posting and

    Hand Bills, Invoice Tops, Circulars, Business

    and Fancy Cards, Society Articles, Pamphlets

    and every description of Letterpress Printing

done cheaply, neatly, and expeditiously  

1OOScots, wha hae wi
Wallace Bled

pitts Printer Toy   and Marble Ware-
house 6 Great st. Andrew street 7dials,

SCOTS wha hae wi' Wallace bled,
W  Scots wham Bruce has often led,
elcome to your gorv bed,

On to Victory !

Now's the day and now's the hour,
See the front of battle o'er,
See approach proud Edwards power, 

Chains and slavery,

Wha will be a traitor knave,
Wha can fill a coward's grave
Wha will be so base a knave

Traitor coward turn and flee,
Wha for Scotlands King and laws
Freeman's sword will strongly draw
Freeman stand or freeman fa
Caledonian on wt' me

By oppressions woes and pans
By your fons in fervile cnains
We will drain our dearest veins

But they shall-----shall be free

Lay the proud usurper low
Tyrants tall in every blow
Liberty's in every blow

Forward let us do or die !SONG.

THEN FILL THE CUP TO MURRAY'S NAME.
Air—" The Highland Watch."

Ye Highland hearts, of generous mould,
Whose truth's renowned in story,
Ye Scottish heroes, brave and bold,
That love your country's glory!
Your voices raise in lofty tone
To pledge with warmest fervour,
For Scotland's sake, her gallant son,
Who knows so well to serve her!

Chorus,
Then Jill the cup to MURRAY'S name,
May still success attend him;
Each grateful-voice mill sound his fame,
Each SCOTTISH heart befriend him!

In peril's hour, when Europe fell
Before the tyrant cow'ring,
And Britain's force could scarce repel
The tempest round her lowring;
On many a dark and bloody field,
Against the fierce invader,
Your MURRAY stood, his country's shield,
With head and hand to aid her.
Then fill the cup, &c.

Of all her sons by SCOTLAND sent
To honour or to save her,
There never forth to battle went
A better or a braver.
Then ye that prize THE TARTAN most
Now prove the love you bear it!
T' is HE that leads your favourite host,
There's none more fit to wear it!
Then fill the cup, &c.

Nor only mid the blood-stained fight
His virtues we discover;
With varied beam, they shone as bright
When war's dread strife was over.
The sword then sheathed, his counsel sound
Our foremost patriot showed him;
And BRITAIN, from her utmost bound,
Confessed the debt she owed him.
Then fill the cup, &c.

And lately to his faithful tongue,
The factious band disdaining,
Our SENATE'S walls have loudly rung,
Old SCOTLAND'S rights maintaining.
For deeds like these we'll round him come
The tribute due to render;
In peace, in war, abroad, at home,
Our Country's best defender!

Then fill the cup to MURRAY'S name,
May still success attend him;
Each grateful voice mill sound his fame,
Each SCOTTISH heart befriend him !THE BANKS

OF

AYR.

The gloomy night is gath'ring fast,
Loud roars the wild inconstant blast!
Yon mirky cloud is full with rain,
I see it driving o'er the plain:
The hunter now has left the moor,

The scatter'd covey meet secure;

While here I wander, press'd with care,
Along the lonely banks of Ayr.

The autumn mourns her rip'ning corn.

By early winter's ravage torn !
Across her placid, azure sky,
She sees the scowling tempest fly :
Chill runs my blood to hear it rave—

I think upon the stormy wave,

Where many a danger I must dare,
Far from the bonnie banks of Ayr.

'Tis not the surging billows roar,
'Tis not that fatal deadly shore,
Tho' death in every shape appear,
The wretched have no more to fear !
But round my heart the ties are bound
That heart transpierc'd with many a wound
These bleed afresh, those ties I tear,
To leave the bonnie banks of Ayr.

Farewell old Coila's hills and dales,
Her healthy moors and winding vales ;
The scenes where wretched fancy roves,

Pursuing past unhappy loves;

Farewell, my friends ! farewell, my foes !
My peace with those, my love with those,
The bursting tears my heart declare;
Farewell the bonnie banks of Ayr.

25THE BODIES O' THE LYNE O' SKENE.

Ye powers o' rhyme gie me a lift
To string 'thegither twa'r three line,
About some frien's that I hae here
That's lang been guid to me and mine:
Gie me the power to raise a lilt,
To show my thoughts and feelings keen,
Wi' gratefu' glee I fain wad sing,
The bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran canty bodies,
	Better never hae I seen;
	Auld farran canty bodies,
	Dwals into the Lyne o' Skene.

Frae Castle Fraser tae Braid Straik
I've drawn mony a shinnin' groat;
Kintore and Echt hae aften help'd
To brighten up my gloomy lot.
The twa Afflochs, the Terryvales,
The bonnie Newton, an' Greystane
May well come ben—they're brithers to
The bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

There's Lauchintilly an' Scrapehard,
The blessings of the puir hae won;
An' better folk ye winna get
Than Drumnaheath and Tillybin—
The Letter gars my spirits glow.
In Wardis I fin aye a frien',
An Breamy, kind, may weel comparae—
Wi' bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

The gardener lads I canna pass,
For deeds o' kindness never slack—
Baith auld an' young hae aften help'd
To fill my purse an' teem my pack.
The auldest frien' that I hae here,
Wi' heart-like steel, sae true and keen,
Lang may he live to crack and joke
Wi' bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

For Craigiedarg, I'll ne'er forget,
Wi' kindly welcome sets you down—
An' Bervie, Corskie, Waterton
Shall mingle in my namely tune.

Back Ward, Blue Park, the merchant's folk,
Hae ever kind and cantie been—
An' lang may Marshal's humour please      
The bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

There's tailors, souters, wrights, an' smiths,
Like brithers kind hae been to me,
And lealer hearts ye widna fin
'Atween the banks o' Don and Dee.
The Fornets gran' I maun bring in
'Afore my ravel't rhyme be deen,
An cottage bodies warm my heart
Like bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

When frosty fogs bedim the moss,
An' little Robin 's nearly dumb—
Or storms drive o'er frae Wardis braes,
An' roar like thunder o'er the lum ;
The tempests sweep the leafless woods,
And bend an' brak the firs sae green,
Yet cosh and cosie here I sit
'Mang bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

May health and peace their steps attend,
And plenty ever swell their  store—
And friendship true and love's warm glow
Spring in their heart for evermore;
May a' their hopes wi' joy be crown'd,
May sorrow never dim their e'en—
The open-handed, kindly-hearted
Bodies o' the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

May corn an' cattle ever thrive,
An' kirns an' girnals ne'er gae deen,
An' layin' hens and heavy calves,
An' kebbucks like the harvest meen,
An' taty pits like giants' graves,
An' kail an' clover ever green,
An' buckin' stacks and towerin' rucks,
Be ever in the Lyne o' Skene.
	Auld farran, &c.

W. CHISHOLM.

A.   KING    AND  CO.,  PRINTERS, ABERDEEN.The Dowie Dens o' Yarrow

Late at e'en, drinking the wine,
And ere they paid the lawing,
They  set a combat them between,
To fight it in the dawing.

"You took our sister to be your wife,
And thought her not your marrow ;
You stole her frae her father's back,
When she was the Rose o' Yarrow."

"I took your sister to be my wife,
And I made her my morrow ;
I stole  her frae her father's back,
And she's still the Rose o' Yarrow."

He has hame to his lady gane,
As he has dene before, O;
Says, "Madam, I maun   keep a tryst,
On the dewie dens o' Yarrow!"

"O stay at hame, my noble lord,
O stay at hame, my marrow ;
My cruel  brother will you betray
On  she dowie dens o' Yarrow."

"Now, hold your tongue, my lady fair,
For what needs a' this sorrow ?
For if I gae I'll soon return
Frae the dowie dens o' Yarrow."

She kiss'd his cheek, she kaim'd his hair
As of t she'd done before, O;
She belted him wi' his noble brand,
And he's awa' to Yarrow.

As he gaed up the Tennies bank,
I wot he gaed wi' sorrow ;
Till in a den he spied nine armed men,
n the dowie dens o' Yarrow.

"O come ye here to hunt or hawk,
The bonnie forest thorough?
Or come ye here to part your land,
On the dowie dens o' Yarrow ?"

"I come not here to hunt or hawk,
The bonnie forest thorough;
Nor come I here to part my land ,
But I'll fight wi' you on Yarrow.

"If I see all, ye're nine to ane,
And that's an unequal marrow;
Yet I will fight while lasts my brand,
On the bonnie banks o' Yarrow."

Four has he hurt, and five has slain,
On the bloody braes o' Yarrow,
Till that stubborn knight cam' him behind,
And ran his body thorough.

"Gae hame, gae hame, my glide brother John,
What needs this dule and sorrow ?
Gae hame, and tell my lady dear,
That I sleep sound on Yarrow."

As he gaed owre yon high high hill,
As he had done before, O;
There he met his sister dear,
Was coming fast to Yarrow.

"O gentle wind, that bloweth south,
From where my love repaireth,
Convey a kiss from his dear mouth,
And tell me how he fareth !

"I dream'd a dreary dream last nicht;
God keep us frae a' sorrow!
I dream'd I pu'd the birk sae green,
Wi 'my true love on Yarrow."

"I'll read your dream, my sister dear,
I'll tell you a' your sorrow ;
You pu'd the birk wi' your true love;
He's killed, he's killed on Yarrow."

She's torn the ribbons frae her head,
That were baith thick and narrow;
She's kiltit up her green claithing,
And she's awa' to Yarrow.

Sometimes she rade, sometimes  she gaed,
As oft she'd done before, O;
And a' between she fell in a sweine,
Lang ere she cam' to Yarrow.

As she sped down yon high high hill,
She goed wi' dule and sorrow;
And in the glen spied ten slain men,
On the dowie dens o' Yarrow.

She's taen him in her airms twa,
And geiu him kisses thorough;
And wi' her tears  had washed his wounds
On the dowie dons o' Yarrow.

"Now hand your tongue, my daughter dear,
For a' this breeds but sorrow;
I'll wed ye to a better lord
Than him ye lost on Yarrow."

She kissed his lips and kaimed his hair,
As oft she'd done before, O;
Syne wi' a sigh her heart did break,
On the dowie braes o' Yarrow.THE

MASSACRE OF GLENCOE.

O ! dark lowr'd the night on the wild distant heath;
And the wild raven croak'd out the bodings of death ;
While the moon hid her beams in the clouds out o' woe,
Disdaining to gaze on the fields of Glencoe
While sweet balmy sleep closed each eye in rest,
And the chieftain he slumbered with peace in his breast,
Ne'er dreading the hour that fate seem'd to show,
That bloody and pale he should lie in Glencoe.

But a flash soon denoted the signal was given.
And the thunders of death wak'd the meteors of Heaven,
While Flora, poor Flora, she wandered in woe,
To seek for M' Donald the pride of Glencoe.
O ! sudden a flash on her vision did glare,
While a cannon's loud thunder was pealed through the air;
It awakened ten thousand brave heroes below,
And roar'd  through the caverns ot mighty Glencoe.

The smoke then arose from our dear native glen,
With the shrieks of the women and cries of the men ;
Naked mother's were shot with their babes as they ran,
For the English had risen to murder the clan.
O! many a warrior that evening was slain,
While the blaze of the village gleam'd far o'er the plain,
Five hundred M'Donald's that night were laid low,
And their blood stained the heath of their native Glencoe.

Then Flora she shriek'd, while loose hung her hair,
O ! where is my Donald, 0 ! tell me, O where ;
The tempest's loud torrent o'er the mountain's do blow,
And stretched, cold and bloody he lies in Glencoe.
When a sigh of despair  hen arose from her breast,
and memory soon told her he slumbered at rest:
He slumbers forever, now free from his woe,
And left his loved Flora, the pride of Glencoe.

Her dark rolling eyes then did kindle with fire,
She fell on his body, and then did expire ;
No more lovely Flora again fear her woe,
But in death found her Donald, the pride of Glencoe.
Now over their heads the green grass it does wave,
And the wild flowers do nod o'er their desolate graves ;    
And the strangers they pass, shed a tear as they go,
For Flora and Donald, the pride of Glencoe.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer & Wholesale
stationer, &c.,  9   King  Street,   [off Trongate],
Glasgow. Upwards of 5000 sorts alwars on
hand : also, a great variety of Picture-Books,
song-Books, Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers
supplied on Liberal Terms.
Handbills, Circulars. Invoices, Business A Fancy
Cards, Large Posting Bills, Society Articles,
Pamphlets, and Letter-Press Printing of every de-
scription, neatly and expeditiousy executed on
Woderate Terms.

Printing-Office, 28 Nelson Street, & 56 Trongate.

IIIJAMIE RAEBURN

ANNIE DEAR,  GOODBYE

THD LOWLANDS OF HOLLAND     OVER THE SEA TO SKYE

James Raeburn's Farewell to Scotland.

Air—Original.

My  name is Jamie Raeburn, near Glasgow I was born,
My place and habitation I'm forced to leave with scorn,
From my  place of habitation I now must gang awa',
Far frae the bonnie hills and dales of Caledonia.

'Twas early one morning, just by the break of day,
I overheard the turnkey, who unto us did say—
Arise, ye hapless convicts, arise ye ane and a' ,
This is the day ye are to stray from Caledonia.

We all arose, put on our clothes, our hearts were full of grief,
Our friends they  a' stood round the coach, could grant us
no relief ;
Our friends they  a' stood round the coach, their hearts were
broke in twa,
To see us leave the bonnie braes of Caledonia.

Farewell my aged mother, I'm vexed for what I've done,
I hope none will upoast to her the race that I haverun;
I hope that she'll be provided for when I am far awa',
Far from the hills and dales of Caledonia.

Farewell my honoured father, he is the best of men,
And likewise my own sweetheart, young Catherine was her
          name;
Nae mair we'll wander doon by  Clyde, nor yont the Broomielaw
For I must leave the hills and braes of Caledonia.

The next place that we meet again I hope 'twill be above,
Where hallelujahs will be sung to Him who reigns in love,
Nae earthly judge shall judge us then but He who rules us a',
Farewell, ye bonnie hills and dales of Caledonia.

Annie, Dear, Good-bye.

I'm leaning o'er the gate, Annie,
'Neath my cottage wall,
The grey dawn breaks, the hour grows late,
I hear the trumpet's call;
I could not brook thy cheek so pale,
The sad tear in thine eye ;
This heart which laughs at war might quail,
So Annie, dear, good-bye.

I'm marching with the brave, Annie,
Far from home and theo,
To win renown, perhaps a grave,
A glorius one 'twill be.
But whatsoe'er tho fate I meet,
To conquer or to die,
This heart's last throb for thee will best,
So Annie, dear, good-bye.

The Lowlands of Holland.

The love that I hae chosen, I'll therewith be content,
The saut sea shall be frorzen, before that I repent ;
Repent it shall I never, until the day I dee,
But the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love lies in the saut sea, and I am on the side,
Enough to break a young thing's heart, wha lately  was a bride,
Wha lately was a bonnie bride, and pleasure in her e'e;
But the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love has built a bonnie ship, and set her on the sea,
Wi' seven soore good mariners to bear her companie;
There's three-score is sunk, and three-score dead at sea,
And the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love, ho built another ship, and set her on the main,
And nane but twenty mariners for to bring her hame;
But the weary wind began to rise, and the sea began to rout,
My love then and his bonnie ship turn'd withershins about.

There shall neither coif come on my head, nor kaim come in
my hair,
There shall neither coal nor candle light shine in my bowor
mair;
Nor will I love another ane, until the day  I dee,
For I never loved a love but ane, and he's drowned in the sea !

Go haud your tongue, my daughter dear, be still, and be
          content,
There are mair lads in Galloway, ye needna sair lament.
O there is nane in Galloway, there's nane at a' for me,
For I never lov'd a love but ane, and he's drown'd in the sea.

Over the Sea to Skye.

Jacobite Song.    Sung  by  Miss  Stewart.

Speed, bonnie boat, like a bird on the wing,
Onward, the sailors cry,
Carry the lad that's born to the King,
Over the seas to Skye.

Loud the winds howl, loud the waves roar,
Thunder clouds rend the air;
Baffled, our foes stand by the shore-
Follow they will not dare.

Speed bonnie 'boat, &c.

Though the waves leap, soft shall we sleep—
Ocean's a royal  bed ;
Rocked in the deep, Flora  will  keep
Watch by your weary head.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Many's the lad fought on that day
Well the claymore could wield
When the night came silently lay
Dead on Culloden's field.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Burned are our homes, exile and death
Scatter the royal men ;
Yet ere the sword cool in the sheath
Charlie will came again.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Copies can always be had at the Poets' BOx Overgate, Dundee.Loch  na Garr.

BY LORD BYRON.
Harkness, Printer, Church St., Preston.

Away, ye gay landscapes ! ye gardens of roses,
In you let the minions of luxury rove ;
Bestow me the rocks, where the snow-flake reposes,
Tho' still they are sacred to freedom and love ;
Yet, Caladonia, belov'd are thy mountains,
Round their white summits tho' elements war,
Tho' cataracts foam 'stead of smooth-flowing fountains,
I sigh for the valley of dark Loch na Garr.

Ah ! there my young footsteps in infancy wander'd
My cap was the bonnet, my cloak, was the plad,
On chiestains, long perish'cl, my memcry ponder'd,
As lonely I stole through the pine-cover'd glade;
I sought not my home till the (lay's dying glory
Gave place to the rays of the bright polar star,
For infancy was cheer'd by traditional story,
Disclos'd by the natives of dark Loch na Garr,

Shades of the dead ! have I not heard your voices,
Rise on the night- rolling breath of the gale,
Surely the soul of the hero rejoices,
And rides on the wind, o'er his own Highland vale ;
Round Loch na Garr while the stormy mist gathers,
Winter presides in his cold icy car ;
Clouds there encircle the forms of my fathers,
They dwell in the tempests of dark Loch na Garr.

I ll starr'd, tho' brave, did not visions foreboding,
Tell you that Fate had forsaken your cause,
Ah ! were you destin'd to die at Colloden ?
Victory crown'd not your fall with applause ;
Still were you happy in death's earthly slumber,
You rest with your clan in the caves of Braemar,
The pibroch resounds to the piper's loud number,
Your deeds on the echoes of dark Loch na Garr.

Years have roll'd on, Loch na Garr, since I left you,
Years must elapse ere I tread you again ;
Nature of verdure and flowers has berelt you,
Yet still are you dearer than Albion's plain ,
England, thy beauties are tame and domestic,
To one who has rov'd on the mountains afar,
Oh ! for the crags that are wild and magestic,
The steep, frowning glories of dark Loch na Garr.


FEYTHER'S

OLD SOW.

Good morrow, Miss Biddy, pray how do you do
I dare say you guesses at what 1 become about,
Feyther and mother say, I mun court you,
And so if sou please, I'll tell you my mind out,
You shall ha' a poney to carry ye,
Cocks and hens—a bull and a sow;
Only say that I shall marry ye,
I'll feed ye as fat as my feyther's old sow.

Be'ant my old feyther got farms o' his own,
Harrows and ploughs, and hedges and ditches too
And when he goes dead, be'ant it well known,
I be heir to the whole of his riches too ;
Are ye content to take me and half of it,
Yo'd better say yes and accept of it now ;
You'll repent if you do make a laugh of it,
For I'll feed you as fat as my feyther's old sow.

I'll buy ye new silk, and fine satins to wear,
You dress yourself up every day like a lady bright
Sit yourself down in mother's' great chair,
And scold all the servants from morning till night
You shall sit at the top of the table,
While all the conpany to you shall bow,
Marry me, I am willing and able,
To feed you as fat as my feythers old sow,

You do want a husband—and I' ll be your man,
Say  ye will have me, depend on't  I,ll  love you dear,
And make you quite happy I' ll do all I can,
To gi' you a thumping boy every year;
Then I'll go fetch doctor and nurse to ye,
At christ'nings we'll make such a deuce of a row
And you know good eating shall foster ye,
For I'll feed ye as fat as my feyther's old sow,

When we've been to church on our grand wed-
ding day,
To dinner & supperwe'll ha, all our best friends,
Wi, bacon and pork and strong ale we,ll be gay
And you, if you like, shall be stuffed at both ends,
Here now, I make the first proffer,
And give you sincerely my true virgin vow,
You,d better, much better, accept of my offer,
For I can feed ye as fat as my feyther's old sow,

Come gi' your consent now & let's marry straight
All the village shall ring  with a peal from the
belles,
My love is so hot that I'm sure I can't wait,
So  if you won't ha' me I'll get somebody else ;
Time flies, come dont be sappy,
See there's our bull running after your cow,
Be wise and make us both happy,
'll feed you as fat as my feyther's old sow.

266My Nannie's

     AWA'.


Now in her green mantle blythe Nature arrays,
And listen the lambkins that bleat owre the braes,
While birds warble welcome in ilka green shaw ;
But to me its delightleas-my Nannnie's awa'

The snaw-drap and primrose our woodland adorn,
And violets bath in the west  o' the morn ;
They pain my sad bosom, sae sweetly they blaw!
They mind me o' Nannie-and Nannie's awa'

Thou laverock, that springs frae the dews of the laws,
The shepherd to warn of the grey-breaking dawn,
And thou mellow mavis, that hails the night fa' ;
Give over for pity-my Nannin's awa'.

Come, autumn, sae pensive, in yellow and grey,
And soothe me wi' tidings o' Natures decay;
The dark, dreary winter, and wild-driving snaw,
Alane can delight me-now Nannie's awa'.

Printed and Sold by James Lindsay, Whole-
sale  Stationer, &c., 11 King Street, (City),
Glasgow  Upwards of 5000 sorts always on
hand ; also, a  great variety of Picture Books,
Song-Books, Histories, &c.  shops and Haw-
kers supplied on Liberal Terms.

Soiree, Concert and Ball Cards, Large Pos-
ing and Hand Bills, Invoice Tops, Circulars,
Business and Fancy Cards, Society Articles
Pamphlets, and every description of Letter-
Prens Printing done cheaply, neatly, and ex-
peditionaly
Lithographing, Bookbinding &c.


BURNS

And his Highland Mary.

In green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers,
Sae enraptured and happy in each ithers arms,
As Burns the sweet bard, and his dear Highland Mary,
And fondly and sweetly he sang o'er her charms,
And lang will his sang sae enchanting and bonnie
Be heard wi' delight on his ain native plains,
And lang will the name o' his dear Highland Mary,
Be sacred to love in his heart-melting strains.

Oh, 'twas a May-day, and the flowers o' the summar,
Were blooming in wildness, a' lovely and fair ;
That our twa lovers met in a prove o' green bowers,
Which grew on the banks o' the clear winding Ayr ;
And oh, to them baith, 'twas a meeting fu' tender,
As it was the last for a while they could hae,
Sae, in love's purest raptures they feasted together,
Till the red setting sun show'd the close of the day.

Oh, Mary, dear Mary, exclaimed her fond lover,
Ye carry my heart, to the Highland with thee ;
Every burnie, every grove, and green bower,
May talk of the love of my lassie and me ;
My life's sweatest treasure, my ain charming Mary,
To the I'll be ever devoted and true ;
For the heart that is beating at hard in this bosom,
Is a heart that can never love ony but you.

O dinna bide lang in the Highlands my Mary,
O dinna bide lang in the Highland's, frae me ;
For I love thee sincerely, I love thee o'er dearly,
For to be happy, sae far my dear Mary, frae thee,
I winna bide lang, my dear lad, in the Highlands,
I canna bide lang for ye winna be there.     
Altho' I hae friends I like weel in the Highlands,
The ane  I love best's On the banks of the Ayr.

Then he kissed her red lips, they were sweeter than roses,
And he strained her lily white breast to his heart,
And his tears fell like dew-drops at e'en on her bosom,
And she said my fond lover, alas, we maun part,
Then farewell, he said, and flew frae his Mary,
Oh, farewell, said Mary she could say nae mair,
Oh little they kenn'd they had parted for ever,
When they parted that night on the banks of the Ayr.

Yet the green summer saw but a few sunny mornings,
Till she in the bloom of her beauty and pride,
Was laid in her grave like a bonnie young flower ;
In Greenock Kirk-yard, on the banks of the Clyde,
And Burns, the sweet bard, of his ain Caledonia,
Lamented his Mary in many a sad strain,
And sair did he weep for his dear Highland Mary,
And ne'er did  his heart love sae deeply again.

Then bring me the lillies, and bring me the roses,
And bring me the daisies that grow in the vale,
And bring me the dew of the mild simmers ev'ning,
And bring me the breath o the sweet scented gale,
And bring me the sigh of a fond lover's bosom,
And bring me the tear of a fond lover's e'e,
And I'll poor them a' down on thy grave, Highland Mary
For the sake o' thy Burns ha' dearly lo'ed thee.An Exact List of the Battle of Dyesart, which
was Fought by King Georges Forces, and the
Saltors and Suttors and Coliars, with a List

of the Killed and Wounded.


Or the furious March at the Battle of Dyesart,

UPON the Twenty eight of January,
Assembl'd our honest folk to breed a Plea
With King George's Forces,
Who wonld not let them be.
Whereof some of them were wound'd
Eighteen Men, a Sergeant and a Drum :
From them they took their Fire-locks,
And broke them on a Stone.
And away they threw their Baggonets,
Because they did much wrong,
By Killing of the Innocent,
A Woman and some Men.
The  Ships came in   to Dyesart,
With a   pretty  Gell   of Wind;
Thinking to carrie off our Bear,
And what Grain they could find.
 But the Valiant Wives of Dyesart,
They ought to be Esteem'd,
They hasted fast into the Shoar,
Our VICTAL to Redeem. 
The Lasses Skiped down the Gate,
And pass'd throw the Kirk-Yeard,
Calling where is that stinking Beast,
The Ugley Swine the Laird ?

Pitcairn with the Baillies came,
The same for to Protect,

Saying, You shall not the Victal get,

Tho' it Cost you your Neck.

The Smiths came from Peath-head,

Skiping as they had been Daft:

No Arms they had into their Hands,

But each a Timber Shaft.

Tho' it should Coast them their Neck,

They hasted fast into the Shoar,

Against them did Combine,

Nothing at all could Satisfie,
But they would Kill the Swine,
The Souters Wives they hasted down,
To their Heels they started fast,
Asking where is that Ugley Swine.
That we may get his Birce ?
But he lay fast into the Room,
While they stroak at the Door,
And never a word thate're he Spoke,
But Groaning like a Boar.
The Wives they up the Water came,
The Orders they Reject,
Each gathering Stones into their Hands,
The swine's Sty for to break.   
And then the Glasses tinkling down.
Which made a noble Sound ;
And then the Doors most hastely,
They Rashed to the Ground,
The Laird he went to Edinburgh,
Some Souldiers for to bring,
The greatest Loss of all it was,
That  their he did not Stay,
Baillie Crombie called his Officers,
Their Halberts for to bring,
Saying, We will quail that Ugley Crew,
And will get our Design.
The Halberts were taken then,
And so they did them break,
And he himself esceaped well,
 That they brake not his Neck.
The denty Wives of Dyesart,
Counts Pitcairns Wife but a Cow,
For wronging of their Patrioch
And holding of the Few.

EDINBURGH, Printed in the Year 1720.MORAG'S FARY
GLEN.

Copies of this song can always be had at the
Poets BOX 192 & 190 Overgate Dundee

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Ye ken whar yon wee burnie, love,

Rins roarin' to the sea ;
And tumbles o'er its rocky beds,

Like spirits wild and free.
The mellow moves tunes his lay,

The blackbird swells his not ;
And little robin sweetly sings,

Above the woody grot.

CHORUS.
Then meet me, love, by a' unseen,

    Beside you mossy den----

Oh, meet me, love, at dewy eve,

In Morag's Farey Glen.
Oh. meet me, love, at dewy eve,

In Morag's Farey Glen.

Come when the sun  in robs of gold.

Sinks o'er yon hill to rest ;
And fragrance floating in the breeze,

And I will pu' a garland gay,

To deck thy brow sae fair ;
For many a woodbine covered glad,

And sweet wild flower is there.

There's music in the wild cascad,

Thrre's love among the trees;
There's beauty in ilka bank and brae,

An' balm upon the breeze.
There's a of nature and of art,

'That mistly weel could be ;
An' O, my love, when thou art-there,

There's bliss in store for thee.SONS OF LEVI,

A New MASONIC SONG.

Come all you craftsmen that do wish,
To propagate the grand design.
Come enter into this bright temple,
And learn the craft that is sublime.

             CHORUS.

We are the true born sons of Levi,
Few on the earth with us compare,
We are the root and the branch of David,
The bright and the glorious morning star.

Come all you knights and knights of Malta,
Forth in glittering armour shine,
Assist your good and worthy prince,
For to protect the ark divine.

For we are the true born sons of Levi,
Few on earth with us compare,
We wear the black and scarlet garter,
On our left breast a blazing star.

With ardent zeal  I've been inspir'd
And a Knight Templar wish'd to be,
For the subversion of the heathen,
I join'd the bright community.

There arose a martial band,
Of warlike knights both stont and true,
With the sword of justice in their hand.
Their cloathing, crimson, black, and blue.

With trembling steps I slow advance,
Sometimes I knock both loud and shrill,
Until a knight, in armour bright,
Demanded me what was my will.

After some questions being ask'd,
To which I answer'd with much fear,
They told me neither surk nor Heathen,
By any means could enter there.

Broad is the way that leads to ruin,
And many are that walk therein,
Come enter into this bright temple,
It is a place secur'd from sin.

With the cross and star plac'd on my breast,
And justice girded my loins all round,
Always remember the twelve stones,
On Jordan's  banks are to be found.

Come all you brethren join with me,
And bear the cross as I have done,
Come enter into this bright temple,
It is a new Jerusalem.                    THE ROYAL ROBE

Come all ye knight templars that's blest round the
globe,
That wear the badge of honour, I mean the royal
robe;
For Noah he wore it in the ark where he stood,
When the world was destroyed by a deluge flood.

Noah he was righteous in the sight of the Lord,
He loved a Freemason that knew the secret word;
He tilled the earth, and he planted the first vine,
His glories in heaven like angels he does shine.

Once I was blind, and I could not see the light,
It was straight to Jerusalem I then took my flight,
They led me through a wilderness with a multitude
of care,
You may know me by the system of the badge
that I wear.

O when I think on Moses I cannot but blush,
And likewise on Mount Horeb and on the burning
bush;
My shoes I will throw off, my staff I will cast away,
Like a pilgrim I will wander until my dying day.

Twelve dazzling lights I saw that put me in surprise
And looking all around me I heard a dreadful
noise;       
A serpent passed by me, I fell upon the ground,
Then with peace, joy, and comfort, the grand secret
I found.

The secret was lost and afterwards was found
So was our blessed Saviour, it is very well known,
In the garden of Gethsemane he sweat a bloody
sweat,
So repent my loving brethren, before it is too late.

Against Turks, Jews, and Infidels, we always do
fight,
To let the wond' ring world know we're always in
the right;
Search the Scriptures over, it is there to be found
That the tree that bears no fruit, ought to be cut
down.

To raise the ark up higher we will join our hands,
The Almighty ordered Moses to pour water on dry
land;
Out of a clear fountain from Eden it did spring
Where Eve  tempted Adam, who a serpent did
sting.

I will never stand by to hear the orphan cry,
No, nor the widow, until the day I die;
In heaven is our  Grand Lodge,  and St. Peter
keeps the door,
And no one can enter it but those that are pure.

JAMES KAY, GLASGOW.                                                   

PRICE    ONE    PENNY.          29FORFAR   FAIR,

OR TAM, AN' MEG

COPIES    OF   THIS   CAN    BE    HAD   at   the    Poet's    Box,
OVERGATE,    DUNDEE.

When I was a prentice in Forfar,

I was a braw lad an' a stout;
My master was auld Tailor Orquher,

That lived at the fit o' the Spout.
His wife's name was gleyed Gizzie Miller:

And 0 ! she was haughty an' vain,
For the bodies had plenty o' siller ;

Forbye a bit house o' their ain.

Nae affspring had they but ae dother,

A blinkin' bit bodie was she ;
An' just 'cause she had a wee tocher,

The jade she thought naething o' me.
She ca'd me a poor shachlin' tailor,

That couldna do naething but sew ;
My conscience ! she said I wad fyle her,

Gin I but just preed her bit mou'.

I gat tea ilka mornin' for porritch,

An' O ! but I liket it fine ;
Wi' skelps o' saut-ham just for forage,

To mak it lie sad i' my wime.
Auld Gizzie I tried aye to gain 'er,

By snodly heel-capin' her hose;
Sae gat ilka day to my dinner,

A caupfu' o' cabbage-kail brose.

Five years I was bund by indenture,
For fear that I sud rin awa;

An' durstna as muckle as venture,

To speak to the lasses ava.
Fell hard indeed was my condition,

My master at wark keept me sair:
But I bought him twa unce o' black sneesnim

An' syne I gat leave to the fair.

Fast, fast thro' the green then I yarkit,
An' past the wind-mill I did fly;

Syne when I gat into the market,
"A feg for indenture," said I ;

"For I'se hae a bouse wi' the lasses,
The auld cock may say what he will ;

I'll try for to meet Meg as she passes,

That lives wi' John Robb o' the mill.

Syne just i' the glowr o' the gloamin,

As I sauntert in to the town
I keppit Meg down the Spout comin',

Poor thing she was lookin' sair down ;

But I filled  her pouch fu' o' sweeties,

An' back to an ale-house we cam' ;
I thougnt 'twad be ten thousand pities

To let her hame wantin' a dram.

There tailors an' weavers sat cockin ;

Wi' masons an' souters an' a';
Sic laughin', sic snuffin', an' smokin',

Some cried to 'bring in the braw lassie,
But ithers for fechtin' were keen,

An' rapped on the table till glasses
An' bickers were dancin their lane.

The wife brought her kebbuck aye handy,

Wi' brown scouthert bannocks enew;
Sae we drank at punch an' French brandy.

Till Meg an' me bath were near fou.
I whistled an' sang like a lintie,

But Maggie began to think shame,
An' said O ! dear Tam, now we've plenty,

I'm fleyed that we tyne the gate hame.

Syne north thro' the town we baith stoitot,

But devil a stym could I see,
The brandy had made me sae doitet,

An' Meg was nae better than me.
We stummelt an' belged upon ither,

Till Meggy she tint her braw mucht ;
Ae stane took our feet baith thegither,

An' ower we played skelp in  a ditch.

Sair, sair did my  Maggy misca' me.

When she raise an shook her new gown,
An' said sure nae gued could befa' me,

But Maggy gat hame to her mither,

An' I to my needle again ;
But faith I was aye  in a swither,

For fare the auld tailor sud ken.

He thoucht I wid merry his dother,

I kent that was aye his intent ;
An' gin I had made but ae offer,

Auld Gizzie wid gi'en her consent.
But my ain lass I winna beguile her,

For I'll marry  sweet Maggy Jack,
As sun's I'm  a braw master tailor,

An' syne we'll get waens in a crack.

PRINTED   at   the   POET's   Box,   by   WM.   SHEPHERD,A LETTER FROM
Doctor  Dalgleish  to his Patient   Mrs.
M'Leod, and her Answer.

M  Leod, you vild Adulterous Jad,
Think you my Service is so bad,
That ye think shame to ca' me Master
You filthy Drunken Warld's Waster,
Mrs. ye're come to be a Patien
To the best Doctor in this Nation,
And if that you his Name wad kno'
Into this Town he's Lord Provo,
So Mrs. tell me your Disease,
And in short Time I will you case.

M'Leod.

John I'll tell you without e're frolick,
I'm troubled with a Horn Colick,
So if Relief you dina send me,
I beleave the Colick, it will end me,
Likewise my Neck is turned Yockie,
Can you Cure that you Devl's Buckie.

John.

Yes by my Faith and that I can,
As well as any Mortal Man,
For I'm a Doctor ev'n as good,
As ever was since Noab's Flood,
For I took never one in Hand,
But what I cur'd in this Land,
Except it was I'll hanged Megg,
Whom I am sure, I did well fleg,
Let your Disease be what it will.
You Whore, I have both Art and Skill,
If it fall, you ha'e the Box,
Of my fam'd Pills yes get a Box,
Or if that you be for the Floe,
A Box of Mercury ye's get too.

M'Leod.

Doctor a Folks says that y'll wrang me,
For you'r Main Cure it is to hang me.

John.

Mrs. upo' my Faith and Truth,        
For to Hang you I wad be loath.

M'Leod.

John y're nought but a cheating Carlie,
For if you cou'd, you'd hang me fairlie,
I soon may get a better  Spoks-man,
Than him that is the City's Locks-man.

John.

Mrs I pray, let be your Canting,
For your harsh Language, I'm no wan-
ting.

M'Leod.

John you're nathing but a Fumbler,
And at your Trade a perfet Bumbler,
For you late an wi' Life awa,
My Sister Megg in Fisherae.

John.

At this the Doctor stood bumbaz'd,
And he upon his Patient Gaz'd.       
And Ca'd her base B—h Whore and Limmer,
And said when she came to his Timber,
That he twa Hours wad gar her Hing,
And mair into a well Crish't String.
There you shall hing till you be dead,
And your two Eyes turn in you'r Head.

F  I  N  I  S.
CHEER, BOYS, CHEER!

Cheer! Boys ! cheer ! no more of idle sorrow,
Courage, true heart, shall bear us on our way;
Hope points before, and shows the bright to-morrow,
Let us forget the darkness of to-day.
So farewell, England ! much as we may love thee,
We'll dry the tears that we have shed before.
Why should we weep to sail in search of fortune ?
So, farewell England ! farewell evermore.

Cheer, Boys, cheer ! for England, mother England!
Cheer, Boys, cheer ! the willing strong right hand !
Cheer, Boys, cheer! there's wealth for honest labour!
Cheer, Boys, cheer ! for the new and happy land.

Cheer Boys, cheer! the steady breeze is blowing,
To float us freely o'er the Ocean's breast,
The world shall follow in the track we're going,
The star of Empire glitters in the West.
Here we had toil, and little to reward it,
But there shall plenty smile upon our pain;
And ours shall be the prairie and the forest,
And boundless meadows ripe with golden grain.

Cheer, Boys, cheer !  for England ! mother England !
Cheer, Boys, cheer! united heart and hand !
Cheer, Boys, cheer! there's wealth for honest labour!
Cheer, Boys, cheer! for the new and happy land.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale Sta-
tioner, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate,) Glasgow.
Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on hand; also, a great
variety of Picture-Books, Song-Books, Histories, & c.
Shops and Hawkers supplied on Liberal Terms.
Hand-Bills, Circulars, Invoices, Business and Fancy

Cards, Large Posting Bills, Society Articles, Pamphlets, &
Letter-Press Printing of every description, neatly and ex-
peditiously executed on Moderate Terms.

Printing Office, 28 Nelson Street, and 56 Trongate.

146The Five Shilling Fee.

My Mither was wae, for my faither was deed,
Au' they threatened to tak' oor auld hoose o'er oor heid ;
Her earnings grew scanty, and meal had got dear ;
The auldest o' five, I could whiles see a tear
When she cam' hame at nicht glisten hard in her een,
Half hid as it didna jist want to be seen.
I spak' nae a word, but my wee heart wad ache,
And I wished I was big for my puir mither's sake.

There were farmers around wanted herds for their kye,
And mither had said she had ane that wad try,
I mind hoo I trembled, half fear and half joy
When a farmer ca'd in jist to look at the boy,
He bade me stan' up ; said he thocht I was wee ;
But my frank, honest face, he said, pleased his e'e ;
He wad tak' me and try me ae half-year an' see
For a pair o' new shoon and a five shilling fee.

We were prood to hear tell o't, a bargain was struck,
And he left me a saxpence o' earls for luck ;
My jacket an' trousers were patched for the day,
And my mither conveyed me a lang mile away,
Wi' threat'nings and warnings 'gainst a' kinds o' crime,
And rules she laid down I thocht hard at the time ;
If the kye should gae wrang I was never tae lee,
Though they send me awa', baith my shoon an' my fee.

Sae I fell tae my wark, an' I pleased richt weel,
A word or a wave and I plied hand and heel;
But my troubles cam" on, for the fences were bad,
An' the midsummer fleas made the cattle rin mad,
And in cauld blasty weather sair drenched wi' the rain,
Whiles wee thochts o' leavin' wad steal o'er my brain;
But with courage I dashed aye the tear fae my e'e
When I thocht o' my shoon an' my five shilling fee.

An' Martinmas brought me my lang wished-for store,
And proudly I counted it twenty times o'er,
Noo years hae fled by in a joyful train,
But I never experienced sic raptures again.
The sailor just safe through the wild breakers steered,
Proud Waterloo's victor when Blucher appeared,
Ne'er felt as I felt when I placed on the knee
Of a fond-hearted mother my five shilling fee.THE                                            

Poet's Return, 

BY  JOHN M A C M I L L A N,              

PROFESSOR OF POETRY, ORATORY, AND TEACHER OF ELOCUTION.       



DEDICATED                        

TO THE GENTLEMEN, THE LAND PROPRIETORS ON THE    
BANKS OF GIRVAN WATER.                              

TUNE—" The Traveller's Return."                                



To view the scenes of Nature, I
Have travelled far and wide,
And wondrous Sights of Art to spy,
With Muses for my guide.
    With joy and grief I now return
To Girvan Water fine,
To see the place where I was born,
Brought up, and bred langsyne—

All hail ! delightful hills and dales,
        With lovely lawns and groves,
Where blithesome birds repeat their tales,
All warbling with their loves :
And hail, relations, friends, I call
On you remaining mine,
Behold how time has changed us all,
Since I was here langsyne !

Kilkerran and Kirkoswald here,
Dalquharran, Dailly dale,
Bargany, and Trochregg, appear,
        Kilochan—Piedmont vale ;—
Kilkerran, O thou place of worth !
Remember I am thine,—
Upon thy land I was brought forth,
In Glenton Farm langsyne.

    Near Dailly Bridge, a cottage there
        Did once the eye regale,
   With D. Maclure's fine children, fair,
         Like lilies of the vale :
In youthful days they went away,
Where they far distant shine,
And flourish like the flowers of May,
Fair virtue's fruits langsyne.!—

Here Catharina, fairest  maid,
Shone like the morning star ;
In learning, she great powers displayed,
At school excelling far.
And sweet Rosina, fair and red,
Carnation-like, so fine,
I loved, but still my love was hid,
Through bashfulness, langsyne !

To Girvan water I'm returned,
Where every scene endears ;
And now, behold the Hill that burned
For near a hundred years !
It rent the rocks, and flamed the height,
And burned the mountain pine ;
But now it is extinguished quite,
Not like the place langsyne !

The Lady  Glen, and all around
Kilkerran House I view,
Where coal, and lime, and wood abound,
 More precious than Peru !
The Muse imagines this my lot,
And sings of it as mine,
This healthy, heartsome, happy spot,
Where I was born langsyne !

I here would lay me down and die,
The ground I would embrace ;
My body  here entombed would lie,
In this my Native Place !
My soul would take the way that's given
To endless bliss divine,
And  join the Seraphim of heaven
With poets of langsyne !TOON OF ARBROATH.

Copies of this Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter
Street, Dundee.    Price One Penny.

Although far frae hame and the blooming heather,

Thousands of miles across the deep sea,

At night, when I'm weary, my mind loves to wander
To the scenes of my boyhood, so dear unto me.

CHORUS______Then here's to the sons of the dear old St. Thomas,

The lassies are bonnie so blithe and so free ;
The auld Abbey ruins, the Cliffs, and the Commons,
The toon of Arbroath will be dear unto me.

The toon of Arbroath is my home and my birthplace,
It was there when at school with the rest of the boys,

When lessons were over we played till the gloamin',
It was there that I tasted my life's sweetest joys.

It was there where my father and mother both taught me
To deal honest and fair, to be kindly and free,

And never to forget there's One Eye above us,
That watches our actions where'er we may be.

It was there where I courted my ain bonnie Mary,

Her cheeks like the new rose, her skin like the snow ; 

I proposed, she consented, we kissed and concealed it,
Down by the Sealon Den where the burnie doth slow.



I've lived as an exile since I left old St. Thomas,

And toiled day and night on a far distant shore :
But like a true Scotchman my work it ne'er failed me,
So now I can boast I've got health and galore.

But the first ship that sails I'll go back to old Scotland,
To the dear old home that I left long ago ;

And when life's journey's over I will die then contented,
And my last sleep shall be beneath the Abbey ruin O.

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
That can always he had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter St., Dundee :

Jamie Raeburn

Hatton Woods

Coal Jock

Sodger Jock

Banks of Sweet Dundee

Braes of Strathblane

Down by the Magdalen Green

Flowery Banks of Tay
Cadgers of Dundee.  
Flora, the Lily of the West
Big Kilmarnock Bonnet
Rocks of Bonnie Gibraltar
Jamie Foyers
Donald's Return to GlencoeWAIT TILL THE

CLOUDS ROLL BY.

Jenny, my own true loved one,
I'm going far from thee,
Out on the bounding billows,
Out on the dark blue sea.
How I will miss you, my darling,
There when the storm is raging high,
Jenny, my own true loved one,
Wait till the clouds roll by.

CHORUS—

Wait till the clouds roll by, Jenny,
Wait till the clouds rolls by;
Jenny, my own true loved one,
Wait till the clouds roll by.

Jenny, when far from thee, love,
I'm on the ocean deep,
Will you then dream of me, love,
Will you your promise keep?
Soon will I come to you, my darling,
Take courage, dear, and never sigh,
Gladness will follow sorrow,
Wait till the clouds roll by.

Jenny, I'll keep your image
Within my heart so true;
Each thought of mine forever
Still, love, shall be of you.
Dry, then, your tear-drop, my darling,
Soon will the night of sorrow fly;
Jenny, now don't be lonely,
Wait till the clouds roll by.

THE  SONG OF THE EMIGRANT.

I'm lying on a foreign shore,
An' hear the birdies sing,
They speak tae me o' Auld Langsyne,
And sunny memories bring.
Oh, but to see a weel-kent face,
Or hear a Scottish lay,
As sang in years lang, lang bye-gane,
They haunt me nicht and day.

My hair ance like the raven's wing,
Noo mixed wi' siller threeds,
Mind me o' ane wha used to sing
O' Scotia's valiant deeds;
She sang, while I stood at her knee,
The dear sangs o' langsyne,
"Auld Robin Gray," an' "Scots Wae Hae,
Or "Myrtle Groves," sae fine.

She sang to me " The White Cockade,"
She sang " The Rowan Tree,"
" There was a lad was born in Kyle,"
An' "Bonnie Bessie Lee."
Whaur is the sang can melt the heart,
Or gaur the saut tear fa',
Like auld Scotch sangs sae dear to me, 
Noo that I'm far awa'.

I've watched the sun at morning tide
Strike o'er the lofty Ben,
I watch him yet wi' greedy e'e,
To where he sets again.
I ken he shines on Scotia's shore,
Though far across the sea,
While I being have I'll sing—
My native land of thee.

NORAH  MAGEE.

Music at JAS. S. KERR'S, Paisley Road, Glasgow.

Norah, dear Norah, I can't live without you,
What made you leave me to cross the wide sea ?
Norah, dear Norah, oh why did you doubt me ?
The world seems so dark and so dreary to me ;
Why from Old Ireland have you been a ranger ?
Why have you chosen the wild world to roam ?
Why did you go to the land of the stranger
And leave your own Barney alone, all alone ?

CHORUS—

Come back to Old Ireland, the home of thy childhood,
The old village well, and the old willow tree ;
Come back to the mountains, the valley, the wildwood,
I can't live without you, sweet Norah Magee.

What have I done that my Norah should leave me !
Oh, how I loved her, and thought that she knew
Her leaving Old Ireland so sadly would grieve me ;
Was she afraid that my heart was not true ?
Why was I silent when when I might have spoken,
And told her my heart, all my heart was her own,
A true Irish heart that is shattered and broken ?
Why did she leave her own Barney alone ?

I wander all day by the field and the farm,
I wander at night by the hill and the dell;
Life's all a blank, it's been robbed of its charm ;
How I loved Norah, my tongue ne'er can tell.
Still I must wait while the pain here is burning,
I'll watch and I'll pray, while the wild billows roar,
That the ship may be safely with Norah returning
Back to Old Ireland and Barney once more.

The three following Song Books sent post free to any
address for 7 stamps :—

THE BEAUTIES OF ROBERT BURNS,
SONGS OF BONNIE SCOTLAND,
AND
RALE SONGS OF OULD IRELAND.

C. R. GILCHRIST & SONS,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS,
Alexandria, Dumbartonshire.A New Song.
Tune of Lochaber no more.

Farewel to Lochaber, and farewell my Jean,
Where heartsome with thee I've mony a Day been;
For Lochaber no more, Lochaber no more,
We'll may be return to Lochaber no more
These, Tears that I shed, they are a' for my Dear,
And no for the Dangers attending on Weir,
Tho' bore on rough Seas to a far bloody Shore,
May be to return to Locbaber no more.

Tho' Hurycanes rise, and rise ev'ry Wind,
They'll ne'er make a Tempest like that in my Mind.
Tho' loudest of Thunder on louder Waves roar,
That's naithing like leaving my Love on the Shore;
To leave thee behind me, my Heart is fair pain'd
By Ease that's inglorious, no Fame can be gain'd
And Beauty and Love's the Reward of the Brave.
And I must deserve it before I can crave,

Then Glory my Jeany maun plead my Excuse,
Since Honour commands me, How can I refuse?
Without it I ne'er Can have Merit for thee,
And without thy Favour I'd better not be ?
I gae then my Lass, to win Honour and Fame,
And if I should luck to come gloriously Hame,
I'll bring a Heart to thee with Love running o'er,
And then I'll leave thee and Lochaber no more,

F   I  N   I   S.BELLE BRANDON,

The Beauty of the Valley.

PRICE  ONE PENNY.

Copies of this highly popular song can only be had in
the POET'S Box

Tune-Original.

Near a tree by the margin of a woodland,
Whose green and leafy boughs sweep the ground,
With a path leading to it o'er the prairie,
When silence hung her night garb around.
There often I have wandered in the evening,
When the summer winds are fragrant on the lea,
There I saw the little beauty of the valley,
And we met 'neath the old arbour tree.
REPEAT.
There I saw the darling beauty of the valley,
And we met 'neath the old arbour tree.

My beauty was a birdling of the mountain,
in freedom she sported on her wing,
And they said the life-current of the red man
tinged her veins from a far distant spring.
She loved her humble dwelling on the prairie,
And her guileless happy heart clung to me,
For I loved the little beauty of the valley,
And we both loved the old arbour tree.
For I loved the little, &c.

On the trunk of an aged tree I carved them,
Our names on the sturdy form remain,
But I now repair in sorrow to its shelter,
And murmur to the wild wind my pain.
Oh, I sat there, in solitude repining,
For the beauty dream that night brought me,
Death has wed the little beauty of the valley,
And she sleeps 'neath the old arbour tree.
Death has wed, &c.

Catalogue of Newest Songs.
The Merchant of Venice
Oh, my, my story it is true
Paddle your own canoe
Riding in a donkey car
Simple Simon
The German band
Married to a mermaid
Beloved eye
You ought to see her hair
Slap bang
On board the Kangaroo
Fisherman and the monkey
Flower of Macharalia
Napoleon is the boy for kicking up a row 
Of course it's no business of mine
Glasgow pretty girls
Bonnie Scotland I adore thee
Girls of Paisley Road
Annie Lisle
Happiest fellow out
Rycharde ye Thyrde
Bravest fellows out
The Muleteer
The sewing machine
My heart's first home
Welcome, my bonnie lad
Bell Brandon
The Sugar Shop
The three fishers
It's wonderful how we do it but we do
The organ grinder
The ill-used organ man
The railway porter
Nil desperandum
The draper's clerk
God bless the Prince of Wales
Dandy Pat
Maggie's secret
Bully little Alabama
Shamrock boys of Kiln
Paddy Magee
Pat Murphy
Auld Scotch sangs
Goodbye sweetheart
My bonnie Kate
The pilgrim of love
Happiest bobby out
Merchant of Venice
Norah M'Shane
Sarah Gray
The washing machine
The hardware line
The Irishman's shanty
Katy's letter

Saturday Morning, Oct. 7, 1865.BURNS,

Old Scotland's
SON  OF SONG.

Burns, Old Scotland's Son of Song,

Thine was the grand, the magic lyre,
That filled the homes of Caledon

With strains all nations do admire.
Bard of liberty and love,

Man and nature's faithful bard,
Thy songs doth wake the silent grove,

While echo whispers her regard.

Chorus.

While Music breathes her sweetest tone,
And Poesy charms the list'ning throng,

We'll strike the harp of Caledon

For Burns, Old Scotland's Son of Song.

Thou wast neglected in thy day,

Scotland little knew thy worth,
But now is felt the glowing ray

Of the star that glistened in the north.
The patriot's sigh, the maiden's tear,

Who weeps for Mary and for thee,
Shall long be off''rings at thy bier,

The shrine of Scottish minstrelsy.

The noble monument and bust

May add a lustre to thy lay,
But these will mingle with the dust

Before thy laurels shall decay,
Whilst cat'racts, eager for the sea,

Leap wildly from their rocky urns,
We'll laud our Prince of Melody,

We'll sing the merry songs of Burns.Gentle Annie.


You will come no more gentle Annie,
Like a flower thy spirit did depart,
Thou art gone alas, like the many,
That have bloomed in the summer of my
heart.

Shall we never more behold thee ?
Never hear thy winning voice again,
When the spring times comes gentle Annie,
When the wild flowers are scattered o'er
the plain.

We have roamed and loved 'mid the bower,
When they downy cheeks were in their
bl om,
Now I stand alone 'mid the flower,
While they mingle their perfumes o'er the
tomb.

Shall we never more behold thee ?
Never hear thy winning voice again,
When the spring time comes gentle A
When the wild flowers are scattered
the plain.

Ah . the hours grow sad when I ponder,
Near the silent spot where thou art laid,
And my heart bows down as I wander by the
stream
And the meadows where we strayed.

Shall we never more behold thee ?
Never hear thy winning voice again,
When the spring comes gentle Annie,
When the wild flowers are cattered o'er
the plain.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate)
Glasgow. Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on
and; also a great variety of Picture-Books Song
Books, Histories, &c Shops and Hawkers sup-
plied on Liberal Terms.

22LOTTIE  LANE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular song can always be had in the
Poet's Box

TUNE-ORIGINAL.

Oh! once I was gay as the lark in May,
And my young heart beat in tune;
While my way was bright, and my step was light
As the linnet's wing in June;
But sad and alone in my grief I've grown,
And all day I now complain,
For I've lost every bliss in a world like this,
Buried deep is sweet Lottie Lane;

CHORUS.
Lottie Lane! Lottie Lane!
Lottie Lane, I'm nigh to thee ;
By thy grave I weep, by thy grave I sleep,
'Neath the boughs of the old oak tree.
Lottie Lane! Lottie Lane!
Lottie Lane, I'm nigh to thee;
By thy grave I weep, by thy grave I sleep,
'Neath the boughs of the old oak tree.

She was kind and true, and all mine too,
Lottie Lane was all for me,
Not a joy had I but when she was nigh,
Oh! we liv'd so happily;
But the oak boughs wave o'er her little grave,
In the daisied meadow now;
And, at eve, oft do I on the green sod lie,
And whisper to her below.

Wither'd roses rest on her gentle breast,
And the lilies o'er her wave,
And the birds now join their sweet lays with mine,
Singing dirges o'er her grave.
All is sad and drear, all is darkness here,
And I wander in my woe;
But betimes again I will meet Lottie Lane,
Though we meet never more below.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

Letters and Petitions written by the Poet on the most
moderate terms.

CATALOGUE OF THE NEWEST SONGS.

Poor little Jim
Bauldie, come hame
Boys that carry the hod
Champagne Charlie
On board the Kangaroo
The sugar shop
German band
Married to a mermaid
Beloved eye
Slap bang
Bridgeton weaver
Hankie Pankie
Two in the morning
Wearing o' the green
Wee Joukeydaidles
Young man dressed in red
Oor wee Kate
Pat and the whale
My bonnie wee wifie and I
Auld Robin the laird
Merry old Uncle Joe
Nanny that leeves next door
Just before the battle, mother
Susan's Sunday out

Saturday, July 2, 1870.SCOTIA'S DIRGE.

Being Verses on the Death of JOHN WILSON, Esq., the
Scottish Vocalist, who died in America, on the 9th
July, 1849.


AULD Scotia now may sigh aloud,
Her tears in torrents fa',
Her sweetest harp now hangs unstrung,
Since WILSON'S ta'en awa'.
He sang o' a' her warlike deeds,
An' sons that gallant were—
Her hoary towers, an' snaw-clad hills,
An' maidens sweet an' fair.

His was a harp o' thrillin' sound,
Could pleasure aye impart;
Its melody o' bygane days
Gaed hame to ilka heart.
Its strains could bring remembrance back
To youthful days at school;
Or mak' us sigh for Scotia's wrangs,
An' Flodden's day o' dool.

He sang o' beauty's winsome wiles,
In mony a leesome theme,
An' gather'd by his artless lays
A never-dying name.
While heather blooms on Scotia's hills,
An' burnies join the sea.
His aft applauded " Nichts wi' Burns"
Will ne'er forgotten be.

Ye gentle maids ! a tribute pay
Frae ' mang your western bowers.
An' strew the Minstrel's lowly grave,
Wi' summer's balmy flowers !
Then, rest thee, Minstrel !  Tho' thy harp
Can noo nae mair be found,
The lovers o' Auld Scotia's sangs
Can ne'er forget its sound !

Gourdon Schoolhouse,               WILLIAM JAMIE.
7th August, 1849.

[We understand that the author of the above dirge is
about to publish a little volume of poems by subscrip-
tion ; and we are happy to hear that the number of his
subscribers is already much beyond what he himself ex-
pected, especially among the clergy and literary gentle-
men in the neighbourhood. It is not for us to recom-
mend an unpublished work, but, judging from what of
Mr Jamie's productions we have published in our co-
lumns, we have every reason to believe that they will
meet with a ready sale. Mr Jamie has already been
before the public as a poet, and his former publication
was well received. For some time past, he has occu-
pied the situation of Teacher at Gourdon ; but we think
his talents are worthy of a better locality. He has la-
boured anxiously and faithfully among the fisher popu-
lation, but his situation has been one more of pleasure
than of profit.]—Ed. M. S.'TIS BUT

A Little Faded Flower.

PRICE ONE PENNY.
Copies can always be had at 80 London St., Glasgow.

Air.—Original.

'Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh ! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.
I may not to the world impart
The secret, the secret of its power,
But treasur'd in my inmost heart
I keep my faded flow'r,
I keep my faded flow'r.
Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.

Where is the heart that doth not keep,
Within its inmost core,
Some fond remembrance hidden deep
Of days, of days that are no more ?
Who hath not saved some trifling thing,
More priz'd than jewels rare ?
A faded flow'r, a broken ring,
A tress of golden hair,
A tress of golden hair.
'Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.

 PRINTING.
W. M. LEITCH takes this opportunity of informing his
numerous Patrons and the Public, that his Prices are
lower than those of any Printing Office in Glasgow, and
that every variety of Job Printing is executed with Neat-
ness and Despatch. Cheapness, Correctness, Neatness and
Punctuality are leading features in the accomplishing
of all orders with which he may be favoured. Business
Cards, Circulars and Handbills; Invoice Tops, Letter
Headings and Memoranda; Concert, Soiree and Assembly
Bills, Cards, and Programmes; Excursion, Fete and Al
Fresco Cards; Cards of Rules for Cricket, Football, and
Quadrille Clubs; Society Rules, Abstracts, and Contribu-
tion Cards; Luggage Labels, Parcel and Receipt Books;
Bottle Wrappers and Labels; Testimonials, Law Docu-
ments, Pamphlets, and Syllabuses; Reference Cards,
Visiting Cards, and Marriage Invitations; Race Meeting
Work; Auctioneers' Bills and Catalogues; Posters, all
sizes and all colours of ink; Numbered Tickets; and,
indeed, every species of Job Printing is done with the
utmost despatch. Parties without manuscript will re-
ceive every assistance in drawing out the form of their
orders. Orders by letter, from the country, receive im-
mediate attention, and are sent off by Rail, Steamer,
'Bus, or Post, as may be most convenient.

Saturday, January 29, 1887.                  P.D.—15-12-76. 



We Are Brethren A'.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies can be had in Poet's Box, 80 London St., Glasgow

TUNE—Original.

A happy bit hame this auld world would be,
If men, when they're here, could mak' shift to agree,
An ilk say to his neighbour in cottage an' ha',
Come, gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

I ken na why ane wi' anither should fight,
When to 'gree would mak' a' body cosy an' right,
When men meet wi' men, 'tis the best way of a'
To say, gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

My coat is a coarse ane, an' yours may be fine,
An' I maun drink water, while ye may drink wine;
But we baith ha'e a leal heart unspotted to show,
Sae, gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

The knave ye wad scorn, the unfaithfu' deride,
Ye wad stand like a rock wi' the truth on your side,
Sae wad I, an' nought else wad I value a straw,
Then gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

Ye wad scorn to do fausely by woman or man,
I haud by the right aye, as weel as I can,
We are ane in our joys, our affections, an' a',
Come gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

Your mither has lo'ed you as mithers can lo'e,
And mine has done for me what mithers can do,
We are ane, high an' low, an' we shouldna be twa,
Sae gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

We love the summer day, sunny and fair,
Hame ! oh, how we love it, an' a' that are there
Frae the pure air of heaven the same life we draw,
Sae, gi'e me your hand—we are brethren a'.

Frail shakin' auld age will soon come o'er us baith,
An' creeping alang at his back will be death;
Syne into the same mither-yird we will fa',
Come, gi'e me your hand we are brethren a'.We've Aye been Provided For.

PRICE   ONE   PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had 
in the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow.
 
All kinds of Music supplied to order on moderate terms.

TUNE—Original.

Sit ye down here, my cronies, and gie us your crack,
Let the wind tak the care o' this life on its back ;
Our hearts to despondency we never will submit,
For we've aye been provided for, and sae will we yet.
	And sae will we yet, &c.

Let the miser delight in the hoarding of pelf,
Since he has not the soul to enjoy it himself;
Since the bounty of Providence is new every day,
As we journey through life let us live by the way.
	Let us live by the way, &c.

Then bring us a tankard o' nappy guid ale,
For to comfort our hearts and enliven the tale ;
We'll aye be the merrier the langer we sit,
For we've drunk thegither mony a time, and sae will we
yet.
	And sae will we yet, &c.

Success to the farmer, and prosper his plough,
Rewarding his eident toils a' the year through ;
Our seed-time and harvest we ever will get,
For we've lippened aye to Providence, and sae will we yet.
	And sae will we yet, &c.

Long live the Queen, and happy may she be,
And success to her forces by land and by sea;
Her enemies to triumph we never will permit,
Britons aye have been victorious, and sae will they yet.
	And sae will they yet, &c.

Let the glass keep its course, and go merrily round,
For the sun has to rise, though the moon it goes down ;
Till the house be rinnin' round about, it's time enough
to flit,
When we fell, we aye got up again, and sae will we yet.
	And sae will we yet, &c.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post.    Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST  SONGS.

The engine-driver				O, for the bloom of my own
I'll tell your wife					native heather
My rattling mare and I			Love's request
Send back my Barney to me			The Desert
Merry old Uncle Joe			The gambler's wife
I cannot sing the old songs			Jessie at the railway bar
Poor old Mike				Up  with   the   lark  in  the
Stirrup cup				morning
Oak and the ivy				My old wife
Lone starry hours				Teddy O'Neil
Health to the outward-bound			The old sexton
The happy family				Bonnie boy in blue
Blue-eyed Nelly				She danced like a fairy
Charming little Sal				Mother, I've come home	
Pride of Pimlico				die
Dancing swell				All among the barley
Conquering boys of Donegal			Father, come home

Saturday morning, Nov. 27, 1869.GARDNER TAMMY.

Tune—" Gloomy Winter's now awa'."



THE storm rag'd o'er on ilka hill,
The wind blew hard, but Tam was still;
Far, far frae hame a grave doth fill,
The warmest hearted Tammy, O.

His heart was kind, his saul sincere;
But wae betide his cruel fair ;
Her name for gudesake dinna speir :
She was the death o' Tammy, O.

Weel could he dance, an' weel could sing,
Aft wad he show the Highland fling;
At kirns and fairs nane could him ding,
The auld, the handsome Tammy, O.

To see him o'er the social bowl
Wi' Maitland Watt, a jovial soul;
His laugh how blythe, now winds doth howl
Out o'er the grave o' Tammy, O.

Ye friends o' Tam come join wi' me,
His mem'ry drink wi' three times three,
A chiel like him we'll never see,
Now eidens Gardner Tammy, O.            V E R S E 
                ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
        BU R N S '       C E N T  E N  A  R  Y.

   The following verses, by the author of " Half-past Ten,"
were written for, and read witih applause at, a Burns' Cen- 
 tenary  Meeting, in  Coatbridge,   on the  25th  January 
1859:-                                                                            

A hunder years this verra nicht,                             
Sin' Rabie Burns saw the licht,                               
Nae clearer star auld Scotia's sicht                        
                                  Has seen ava' ;                          
'Mang a' her bards, and some's gey bricht,              
Rab crouns them a'.                  

Auld mither Scotland owes him yet,                        
An' we, her bairns, maun pay the debt ;                 
It's, no for fear we could forget                               
Our patriot bard,                          
Bat just to show a wee respect—                                   
                   Some sma' regard.                        

Are we no proud o' what he's sung,                        
  Whan thousands hae enraptured hnng                    
    Upon his words, in auld Scotch tongue,                     
                       Fear'd' twad be lost?                 
    Till noo, owre a' the earth its rung,                        
                      Our pride an' boast.                  

In foreign lands, whan Scotch folk meet,                 
His worth's there felt, 'tis tnen they see't,               
Whan singin' o'er his gangs sae sweet,                      
                   Their han's they twine,              
While tears o'joy their haffets weet                       
                     At Auld Laugsyne.                  

                                                                      

'Tis then they think o' Corn Riggs bonnie,              
 O' Nelly, Mary, Jean, an' Annie,                             
His Tam o' Shanter, Souter Johnny,                        
			An' the wee Mouse,                   
Twa Brigs, Twa Dogs, his auld Mare Maggie,         
                      An' e'en the Louse.                    

 He was indeed true nature's chiel',                                
Whilk mak's us a' lo'e him sae weel,                            
  Was tae his kintra true as steel ;                                   
		 But touch her honour,              
An' then his pen wad mak' ye feel                          
                        Whar the dishonour.                 

   Just read his sangs and poems o'er,                       
   Ye'll see gems ye ne'er saw before,                         
   Tak' Shakespeare, Byron, Scott, an' Moore,           
                        Read a' by turns,                      
   An' then ye'll bless that kindly power                       
                           That gied us Burns.POEM

On the much to be lamented Death of Captain Chiesly and Lieu-
tenant Moody, with a particular Account how they were Slain.

O! Now my Muse Dramatick stand aside,
Let Tears for Commas Clausulas divide.
Let deepest Sorrow Dictate every Word,
Each Sentence Savor of the Fatal Sword.
Joy quite forgot, let no such Thing be here,
Sound sad Quærelas O ye Tragick Quier
Sad is the Thame,change now your Nots ye Nine,
Let Doolful Echos Treeble every Line.
Inspire my Heart, my Head, my Hand, my Pen,
While I do Write, and Weep and Write again.
Two Sons of Mars, who bravely late Campigns
Withstood their Foes, and fors't their Fronteer Lines.
Brave Martial Spirits, tho' mid'st Death and Wounds,                    
They did not fear to Face the French Platouns,                             

But fought for Honour and for Laural Crowns.         }                     

From fiercest Foes they scorn'd to turn their Face,
Till War detcrmin'd in a happy Peace.    
Ah ! Peace to them open'd for Death a Door,                                  

Brave Ajax fell, tho' Trojan Wars were o're,                        }                     

The Vilats Testifie his Purple Gore.                                          

Now çursed Wrath doth dearest Friends Disjoint,
Each   gainst his Fellows Breast presents his Point.
O! do I awake, or is't th'effect of Dreams,
No, no, the Purple Blood runs down in Massie Streams,
Ah ! Pity wer't, but who can change Decree
Or alter Events of sad Destanie.
No sooner did the one Receive the Fatal Wound,
But th'others Life must instantly Compound.
Tragedians now need no more Strain their Wits,
To Busk up Shadows Empty Counterfits;
In Hidious Shapes t'amaze the frighted Mind,
Here a Substantial Tragedie we find.
Acted without a  Vizard one the Stage,         }                     

Each fell a Victum to his Fellows Rage;           }                 

Curst be the Time in which they did Ingage:  }              

Let Darkness Cover that Unlucky Hour,
May it be Banish't from the Twenty four;
Let it be wraped in the darkest Night,
No Voice be heard on't, save what tends to Fright.
Brave Chiesly, why was Fate to thee so Cruel;.            }

To suffer thee to Die as doth a Fool,                          }

Escapt in Fight, and yet fell in a Duel.                        }

Or why dear Moody now doth Fortune Scoff,
Which once assisted thee to carry off
Thy Colours from the Proud insulting Foes,
Regardless of their Fury or their Blows ;
Curs'd be th' unlucky Spot upon our Street,
Where Destany ordained you to meet.
Let Perfect hatred be it's ugly Doom,
Make it more Noysom than that Place in Rome ;
Where Babel's  Whore, th'Adultress Pope Joan,
Brought furth her Brat and prov'd she was no Man.
Let Passengers Weep when they look thereon,
And at the Fatal Cairn throw a Stone ;
That every Age may to another tell,
Here both the Captain and Lieutenant Fell.
FINIS.A pil to Tonny Ashton

or the

Play-house Puld down.

OM Y Blood boiles, my Spirit's all in fire;
Passion's in  pomp, nor can the Flames flly
higher;

To sie my dear my Native Countery gone,
And English dreg lay on  the fun'ral stone,
The Dayes hath been, o  may they yet Return!
And  Heav'n raise burry'd  Scotland, from her Urn,
when such vile vermine, puny Rogues as yow
Did  to a Scot, with lowly Rev'rance  bow,
But now, ah me ? we live in fatal Dayes,
Oppress'd   with Taxes, Tonny, and his Playes,
The very Scum, and Scandel of the Isle,
Hector  our Men, and our fair fex beguile;
Ann must  our Nation,  still be treated thus,
What's Commedy to yow, proves Tragedy to us
What can   our peerage, and our Gentray say,
To see this Fine Epilogue of a Play.
Tell me ye Stroler ? black  with every Crime,
Varlet below the dignity of rhime,
How many D--------Is,  put yow on the plot?
Your Soul with anguish burn, your Carcass rot
Where ever Ladies, at their tea  Converss,
They'l hate thy name,  base Actor of the Farce,
Thy wretcheed name but ah that Words too Mild,
shall be a Bogle to the crying Child,
Theres Tony the Child Stealer cries the Nurse,
The  Child will Tremble, and the Maids will Curse,
Child Stealing Rogue, ,who Drains us of our Money,
Wee'l Change that Word a Cheat, unto these Words
(Attens
O had  our Country,   never seen thy Face !
Champion of Vice, and Strangers unto Grace,
You've brought Play -house and  prison to Disgrace. 

F I N I S.A

Merry Dialogue, in the Tolbuith of
Edinburgh ; Betwixt Tonny Ashton.
And John Curry .

Tonny.                             

COME, my couragious Jack, my metl'd Scot 
Why may'nt  we kindle Kindness with a Pot,
Yow've run the Ghent-loup, and yow've try'd theTron,
Your Suffrings are expir'd, when mine comes on:              
Adamn'd  fowr looking Dog, is your Jack Catch,
And proudly Whips, with fury aud Dispatch ;
The Cobler wirh his Auld,   your Ear did  bore; 
But with ,his Lingle, did not mend the sore
And when he fix'd  yow firm,  how did he Jeer ?
Curry can bind a Book, and I can bind an Ear.
He ev'ry Day, puts Ears unto a Shoe,
And yet refuses, a New one to yow; 
Yet surely Jack, he was more fierce, than wise,
S ampiug Calf-leather's  part of the Excise,
A supervisor, should have marked yow,
And Claimd the duety, which the Law makes due; 
Your Leather's enterd, prithee drive a Trade,
For stock on hand, is finely tann'd and Taed.

Curry.

Bully, your words slow down, like Haisty showrs,
My Leather's entered ; but who enter'd yowrs  
Yow are a Leather Merchant very fine,
Your Crimes more crying ; Blacker  far than mine:
Many a Play I've bound, but may I rot,
If yours, hath not the most damnation Plot:
There is a Play, call'd Marriage a la  mode                 
But yow have basely, thro' that dramma trode
How will  yow Look, Pock-pudding, tell your mind,
For to be hiss'd, by all the Womenkind ;
Bully,  a Rape is death, and all men hope
The Rape will bring yow, to Dalgleishes Rope.
Or if yow save your Bacon, I must tell,
That sly Rob Forbes,                             
Are Actors for the Church; and  they, Play fine,
Yow'l  find, their scourging, sharper is than mine.   
An ounce or  two of Pomit, cures the Back;
But they can make yow, on the Creepie crack,
The whigs will smile, to see you in that Lurch:
Playhouse pull'd down and Tonny  in the Church.
'Twill be a Joyfull sight, to see yow there ;
The D---is Factor, in the House of Prayer,
Tonny, a mighty diffrence will Appear,
'Twixt a Scots Preacher; and the Spainish  Frier     
He'll spread your stinking Concience. cursed Life,
And make yow odious,  to your self, and Wife,
Till they who  pelted Eggs upon my bones,
Give yow a Handsom Compliment of Stones.

          JESSIFIELD.

Oh have you seen my Mary Ann ?
Was one time all the go ;
But now 'tis neither pot nor pan,
'Tis Jessifield you know.

CHORUS-- Oh may, then, ne'er to that poor house
A son of Adam go,
For puss can't live, nor e'en a mouse
In Jessifield you know.

A warder with majestic form
Soon shows you where to go,
His voice to rules makes you conform
In Jessifield you know,

A suit you get without your aid
Makes you a frightful beau,
They put gay fashion in the shade
In Jessifield you know

The doctor calls to make you whole,
The parson comes to sow
The word into your darkened soul
In Jessifield you know.

Each day you get three scanty meals,
In sunshine, rain, or snow ;
The Drunkard's sad complaint soon heals
In Jessifield you know.

The vile plank bed could tell a tale
Of agony and woe.
Groans, sighs, and tears, of no avail
In Jessiefield you know.

A prisoner's life's a dreary one,
No knocking to and fro,
And, sad to think, all sport is done
In Jessifield you know.

Of all familiar sounds we hear,
Crow of cock, caw of crow,
They mind of liberty so near,
In Jessifield you know.

The cruel tyrannic husband
Gets tamed on diet low
And vows no more to lift his hand-
In Jessifield you know.

The ladies who get fond of ale
And with the roughs will go,
At last get stirabout and kail
In Jessifield you know.

Wild boys who will not go to school
But fond of mischief grow,
For all such fools a birch do rule
In Jessifield you know.

The poacher too has lost his fame
Since he's with them in tow,
But now he must give up his GAME
In Jessifield you know.

We're told the burning fiery lake
Must have a lurid glow,
And be quite large spare room to make
For Jessifield you know.

I'm free, but when I bring to mind,
My eyes with salt tears flow
To think of those I left behind
In Jessifield you know.

Take this advice before we part,
Be thou a friend or foe,
Do what is right where'er thou art
Lest Jessifield you know.A FAVOURITE SONG, CALLED

LORD ELY'S



GATES.



Sec. 7,

As I went by Lord Ely's gates,
I heard a fair maid singing,
With a bonny baby in her arms,
And all the bells in the court were ringing,
I am Lord Ely,s nurse she said,
My pordon very well becomes  me.
I will give all my half year's fee,
If I had a sight of my Johnny.

By came a riding her own true love,
He heard these words most kindly,
Keep ye all your half year,s fee,
And you'll soon get a sight of your Johnny
You will go down to yon alehouse,
A wee below the daw'ing                              
Ye call for the wine, the very very fine,
And I'll come and I,ll pay up your lawing.

He has gone down to yon alehouse,
A wee before the daw'ing,
He has called far the wine, the very very fine,
But she never came to pay up his law'ing,
He looked over through the back window,
To see if his true love was coming,
There he spied twelve armed men,
Just over the plains were running.

O landlady, landlady, what shall I do,
For my life is not worth a farthing,
For I paid you a crown for my supper last night,
I'm afraid I,11 never see the daw'ing,
If you will be advised by me, she said,
I will be your undertaker,
I will dress you up in my own body clothes,
I'll set you down to the baken.

Loudly loudly, they rapp,d at the gatss,
And loudly they have call'd,
O had you a stranger here last night,
Or is he long gone o'er the daw'ing,
O yes, I had a stranger here last night,
But lie's long. gone ere the daw'ing,
He call'd for a pint, and he paid as he went,
And you've got no more to do with his law'ing

Come shew us the room that the stranger lay in,
He's long long gone e'er the daw'ing,
They stabb'd the feather bed all round and all over,
The curtains, they did not miss to tear them,
They were disappointed—every one,
And vexed to be so mistaken,
They went as they came, they left all things undone,
And they left the young squire of Busy Baken.ANNIE LAURIE


Maxwelton braes are bonnie,
Where early fa's the dew,
'Twas there that Annie Laurie,
Gi'ed me her promise true.
Gi'ed me her promise true—
Which ne'er forgot will be,
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I'd lay me down and dee.

Her brow is like the snaw-drift,
Her neck is like the swan,
Her face it is the fairest
That e'er the sun shone on.
That e'er the sun shone on—
And dark blue is her e'e,
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I'd lay me down and dee.

Like dew on gowans lying,
Is the fa' o' her fairy feet,
And like winds, in simmer sighing,
Her voice is low and sweet.
Her voice is low and sweet—
And she's a' the world to me;
And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I'd lay me down and dee.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Wholesale Stationer,
c , 9 King Street, (City) Glasgow. Upwards of 50,000
different sorts always on band; also, a great variety of Pic-
ture-books, Song-books, Histories c. Shops and Hawkers
applied on Liberal Terms.

Hand-Bills, Circulars, Invoices, Business and Fancy Cards.
Large Posting Bills, Society Articles, Pamphlets, and Letter
Prese Printing of every description, neatly and expeditionsly
executed on Moderate Terms.B0NNIE BESSIE LEE.

BONNIE Bessie Lee had a face fu' o' smiles,
And mirth round her ripe lip was aye dancing slee,
And light was the footfa' and winsome the wiles
O' the flower o' the parochin—our ain Bessie Lee!

Wi' the bairns she would rin and the schule laddies
pake,
And o'er the broomy braes like a fairy would flee,
Till auld hearts grew young again wi' love for her sake
There was life in the blithe blink o' Bonnie Bessie Lee.
Our ain Bessie Lee, our bonnie Bessie Lee,
There was life in the blithe blink o' bonnie Bessie Lee.

She grat wi' the waefu' and laughed wi' the glad,
And light as the wind 'mong the dancers was she;
A tongue that could jeer, too, the little limmer had,
Whilk keepit aye her ain side for bonnie bessie Lee.

And she whiles had a sweatheart, and sometimes had
twa,
A limmer o' a lassie—but, atween you and me,
Her warm wee bit heartie she ne'er threw awa,
Though mony one had sought it frae bonnie Bessie
Lee.
Our ain Bessie Lee, &c.

But ten years had gane since I gazed on her last,
For ten years had parted my auld hame and me.
And I said to mysel as her mither's door I pass'd,
"Will I ever get anil her kiss frae bonnie Bessie Lee ?

But time changes a' thing—the ill-natured loon—
Were it ever so rightly, he'll no let be;
But I rubbit up my een, and I thought I would swoon,
How the carle had come roun'   about wi'  our ain
	Bessie Lee.

The wee laughing lassie was a gudewife growing auld
'Fwa bairns at her apron and ane on her knee;
She was douce, too, and wiselike—and wisdom's sae
cauld,
I would rather ha'e the ither ane than this Bessie Lee.BONNIE
NELLY BROWN

This Popular Song can be always had at the Poet's Box,
Overgate Dundee

O bonnie Nelly Brown,
I   will sing a song  to  thee,
Though oceans wide between us row,
Ye'll aye be dear to  me —
Though mony a year's gane o'er my head
Since down in  Linton's dell,
I took  the  last fond  look o'  the.
My ain dear Nell.

O tell  me Nelly Brown,
Do you mind our youthfu' days,
When we ran about the birnie's side,
Or ED el'd the gowany braes—
When I pu'd  the craw-peas  blossom,
And the blooming  heather bell,
To twine then round the bonnie brow,
My ain dear Nell.

How  often  Nelly Brown.
Ha'e we wandred ce'r the lea,
Where grow the brier, the yellow broon,
And flowery  hathorn  tree —
Or sported   'mang yon   leafy  woods,
Till nicht's lang shadows fell -
O we ne'er had thoughts o' partin' then,
My  ain dear Nell

And  in winter,  Nelly Brown.
When nichts were lang ard drear.
We  would creep down by the ingle Side,
Some-  fairy   tale  to hear:
We car'd   not for snawv  drift,
Nor nippin' frost sae snell,
For we lived  but for each  ither then.
My ain  dear Nell.

They tell  me Nel'y  Brown.
That  your bonnie raven hair,
Is snaw-white noo, and that your brow,
She cloudless ance and fair,
Looks carworn noo, and unco sad
But  I  heed  nae what  they tell,
For I ne'er can think  you're  changed  to fine
My ain  dear  Nell.

Ance mair,  then.  Nelly Brown,
I have sung of love and thee.
Though oceans wide between us row,.
Ye're  aye  the same to  me.
And when I sighed my last farewell,
In Linton's   flowery dell-
O   I ne'er can  tine my love  for thee,
My ain dear NellBonny Aberdonian;

OR,

Marry an Aberdonian.

NEW SONGS OUT EVERT WEEK.

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poets' Box.

Now I 've been looking up and doun
For months, I 'm sure, about this toun,
A thrifty wife my joys to croon—
	But I'll no say I 'll take ony ane.
O' a' the places I ha'e seen
In different places I ha'e been,
Nae damsel pleases my twa een
	Like a strapping Aberdonian.

		CHORUS.

For there's naething in this world that pleases me,
Like a bonny young lass and a gude cup o' tea,
And my mither aye says, " Be advised by me,
And marry an Aberdonian."

Now to speak o' mysel', it's my belief,
I 've gotten a' my wisdom teeth,
For I wouldna tak' mustard without beef,
I 'm no sic a senseless loonie ; and
For age, I 'm just about my prime,
Hale, hearty, stout, and up to time,
I 'm sure I'll please the lassie fine
When I get my Aberdonian.

Now there 's lots o' chaps, as sure 's I 'm here,
Wha think o' naething but drinking beer,
Their heads aye muddled, they ne'er see clear
Tae dee good tae themselves or ony ane.
Lat ithers plague me wi' their chaff,
I "ll no put up wi' sic riff-raff,
But I 'll stay at hame wi' my better half—
Aye, and I 'll nurse my Aberdonian.

Now I will need to be gaun awa'
For fear ye may think I 'm gaun tae blaw,
Some ither night I 'll gi'e ye a ca'—
Say the morn's night, or ony ane ;
And gin ye meet me in the street
Along wi' some lassies dressed up so neat,
I hope you'll no be so indiscreet
As cry " How 's your Aberdonian ? "Bonny Dundee.

I who was once a day Courted by many,
Now am most scornfully Slighted by thee ;
Others some reason had, thou ner'e had any,
Returning with Disdain my Courtesie : 
Slave to Affection and thy sweet Completion,
Thus far I have been but no longer shall be;
A rash Election, goes not by Direction,
Of the weak Feminine Amorous we.   

Madam your Modesty hath been too rigid
In putting such mistakes betwixt you and me,
You know that in Nature our Sex are obliged,
To give the first Onset when Objects we see ;
But thy unparallel'd Virtue, Birth, Beauty,
In such a measure surpasseth my Degree,
That with a sad Heart I deem it my duty,
Far from such needless Presumptions to flee.

Did not my Modesty plead me a Lover,
When Fortune bless'd me with thy Companie;
Did not my Blushes a Passion discover,
When thou was absent, yet talking of thee;
Did not I Court thee altho agains Nature,
What greater Symptoms of Love can there be,
So be thou no longer an unsensible Creature,
But freely venture,and welcome to me.

Through all Regions to fly I'll dare venture,
Sure Cupid will lend me wings to follow thee;
Yea like a Pilgrime I'll round the Earths Centre,
Or like Leander I'll hazard the Sea :
Silent Loves scorching Flames long I endured,
What greater Torment than this can there be,
All this I have suffered, nay more when assured,
My dearest Soul, that my Love's welcome to thee.

F   I   N   I   S.BONNY HELEN

A New Song.

To the Tune of the Yellow
Haird Ladie.

ON Atrick-side  in yarrow,

 a place pleasent and fair,
I thought on bonny Helen,
as I was walking there.
As I was walking there,



she came into my Mind,
I thought my bonny Helen

fairest of Woman kind.

I  said then, bonny Helen
if I were now with you,

For to kiss you and clap you,
as I was wont to do.

But I'am now in the Forrest

where I never was before
But yet my bonny Helen
I love and shall adore.

In the Haughs upon Yarrow,

in the Forrest so fair,
There are many  bonny Lasles

Milking the Ewes there.
Milking the Ewes there,

where now I do repair ;
But yet my bonny Helen

shall be my only Dear.

O Helen I'm far from you,
but yet I will prove kind.
Thorow bills and thorow  valleys

you're still into my mind,
You shall still be in my mind,

and to you  I'll prove true,
And to all other Lovers

I freely bid adieu,

FINIS. Bonny Mary of

ARGYLE.

I have heard the mavis singing,
Its love song to the morn,
I have seen the dew-drop clinging
To the rose just newly born;
But a sweeter song has cheered me
At the evening's gentle close,
And Ive seen an eye still brighter
Than the dew-drop on the rose.
'Twas thy voice, my gentle Mary
And thy artless winning smile,
That mada this world an Eden,
Bonnie Mary of Argyle

Tho'thy thy voice may lose its sweetness
And thine eye its brightness too,
Tho thy step may lose its swiftness
And thine hair its sunny hue ;
Still to me thou wilt be bearer
Than all the world shall own ;
I have loved thee for thy beauty
But not for that alone:
I have watched thy heart dear Mary
And its doodness was the wile,
That has made thee mine for ever
Bonnie Mary of Argyle

Printed and Sold by JAS. LINDSAY, Whole-
sale Stationer, &c., 11 King Street, (City,) Glas-
gow. Upwards of 6000 different sorts always on
hand ; also, ,a great variety of Picture Books,
Song Books, Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers
supplied on Liberal Terms.

Soiree, and Concert, Ball Cards, Large
Posting and Hand Bills, Invoice Tops,
Circulars,   Business and Fancy Cards,
Society Articles, Pamphlets, and every   .
description of Letterpress Printing done
cheaply, neatly, and expeditiously.
Lithograph ng, Bookbinding  &c. &c.BONNY MOON


Printed by T.BIRT, 10,  Great St. Andrew-street
wholesale and  retail \ill\ seven Pials London.
Country Orders punctually  attended to.
Every description  of Printing  on reas nable terms.
Children's Books, Battled o\ill\, pictures, &c.

As I went to my cot, at the close  of  the day,
About the beginning of June,
By a jessamine shade, I spy'd a  fair maid,
And she sadly complain'd to the moon.
Roll on silver moon, guide the traveller's way,
(Whilst the nightingale's  song  is in tune.)
But never again with my lover I'll stray,
By thy sweet silver light, Bonny Moon.

At the  heart on the mountain my lover  was brave;
So handsome, so manly, and clever,
so Lind  and sincere, and he  lov'd me so \ill\ar—
O  Edwin, thy equal was never !
But now he is dead, and gone to his death-bed.
Cut down like a rose in full bloom ;
He has fallen asleep, and poor Jane's left to weep,
By thy sweet silver light, Bonny Moon.

His grave I will seek, and 'till morning sppear,
I'll weep for my lover so brave ;
I'il embrace the cold turf and I'll wash with My tear
The daizies that bloom on His grave.
O never again shall my bosom know  jay,
With my Edwin I trust to be soon : —
And lovers shall weep, o'er the spot where we sleep
By thy sweet silver light, Bonny Moon.Braes of Birnibouzle

J.Pitts Printer and Toy Warehouse, Great st.
Andrew street 7 dials.

WILL ye gang wi' me Lassie,
To the braes of Birnibouzle
Baith the earth and sea Lassie
Will I rob to feed thee
Ml hunt the otter and the brook
The hart the hare and heatherceck
And pull the Limpats of the rocks
To fatten and defend you
Gif ye will gang wi me Lassie
To the braes of Birnibouzle
Till the day ye die Lassie
Ye shall awa ha plenty
The peats I'll carry in a skuil
And cod and ling wi'  lines I'll pull
I'll live the eggs from many a Gull
To make your dishes dainty
Say cherry shall be Lassie
In the braes of Birnibouble
Donald Gan and me Lassie
Ever will attend ye
Tho we hae neither milk or meal
Nor Lamb nor mutton beef or veal
And tank the puppy of the seal
And that s the way to feed ye
At the kirk of Birnibouzle
Wi Litted brogues and a Lassie
Vow but you'll be vaunty
And shall wear when ye are we,
The Kirtle & the Highland Plad
And sleep upon a heather bed
Sae cozcy and sae canty
Gin ye will marry me Laddie
At the kirk of Birnibouzle
My chiefestaim shall be
Ever to content ye.
I'll bait the line and bato the pail
and row the boat & spread the sail
And pad clotters wi' a flail.
To make our taties plenty
Then comes wa wi' me Lassie
To the braes of Birnibouzle.
And since ye sae true Lassie
Ye ne'er shall repent ye
For ye shall hae both tups & ewes
and Gaits and swine & stots & cows
And be the Lady o my house
And that may weel content Ye.                        BURNS AND HIGHLAND MARY.

In green Caledonia there ne'er were two lovers, 
Sae enraptured and happy in each others arms,
As Burns the sweet bard and his dear Highland Mary And fondly and sweetly he sang of her charms. 
And lang will his sang sae enchanting and bonnie
Be heard with delight on his dear native plains,
And lang will the name of his dear Highland Mary, 
Be secred to love in his heart-melting strains.

O' twas a May day, and the flowers o' the simmer Were blooming in wildness a' lovely and fair;          
That our twa lovers mot in a grove o' green bowers Which grew on the banks of the clear winding Ayr. 
And oh, to them baith 'twas a meeting fu' tender, As it was the last for a while the would hae—
Till the red setting sun showed the close o' the day. 
Oh ! Mary, dear Mary, exclaimed her fond lover Ye carry my heart to the highlands with thee ;
Every burnie aud bank every grove and  green bower,
May talk o'the love o'my lassie and me;
My life's sweetest treasure my ain charming Mary, 
To thee I'll be ever devoted and true ; 
For the heart that is berring sae fast in this bosom, 
The heart that can never love any but you. 
Oh ! dinna bide lang in the Highlands my Mary. 
Oh ! dinna bide lang in the Highlands frae me, 
For l love these sincerely I love thee ow're dearly, 
To be happy so far my dear Mary, from thee.
I winna bide lang my dear lad in the Highlands,
I canna bide lang for ye winna be there
Although I hae friends I like weel in the High ands,
The ane I love best's on the banks o' the ayr.
Then he kissed her red lips thev were sweeter than roses,
And he strained her lily-white breast to his heart,
And her tears fell like dew-drops at e'en on his bosom,
As she said my fond lover, alas! we maun part.
Then farewell ho said, an' he flew frae his Mary,
Oh ! farewell said Mary, she could sae nae mair ;
Oh ! little they kenned they had parted for ever,
When they parted that night on the banks o' the Ayr.

Yet the green summer saw but a few sunny mornings ,
Till she, in the bloom of her beauty and pride,
Was laid in her grave , like a bonny young flower,
In Greenock Kirk Yard, on the banks o' the Clyde ;
And Burns the sweet bard of his ain Caledonia,
Lamented his Mary in many a sad strain. 
Ah ! sair did he weep for his dear Highland Mary, 
And ne'er did his heart love sae deeply again. 
Then bring me the lilies and bring me the roses, 
And bring me the daisies that grow on the vale ;
And bring me the breath of the sweet seented gale,
And bring me the sigh of a fond lovers bosom,
And bring me the tear of a fond lovers e'e,
And I'll pour them down on thy gravo Highland Mary,
For the sake o'  thy Burns what owre dearly loved thee.
Moore, Printer, Cheapside, Belfast.BURNS

And his Highland Mary.

In green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers,
Sae enraptured and happy in each ither's arms ;
As Burns the sweet bard, and his dear Highland Mary.
And fondly and sweetly he sang o' her charms.
And lang will his sang sae enchanting, and bonny,
Be heard wi' delight on his ain native plains ;
And lang will the sango his dear Highland Mary,
So secred to love in his heart-inciting strains.

O, 'twas a May-day and the flowers o' the simmer,
Were blooming in wildness a' lovely and fair ;
That our twa lovers met in a grove o' green bowers,
Which grew on the banks o' the sweet winding Ayr,
And O ! to thembaith 'twas a meeting fu' tender,
As it was the last for a while they could hae ;
Sae loves purest raptures they tasted together,
Till the red setting sun showed the close of the day.

O Mary, dear Mary, exclaimed her fond lover,
You carry my heart to the Highlands with thee ;
Every burnie and bank every grove and green bower,
May talk of the love o' my lassie and me.
My life's  sweetest treasure my am charming Mary,
To thee I'll be ever devoted and true ;
For the heart that is beating sae fast in this bosom,
Is a heart that can never love ony but you.

O dinna bide lang in the Highlands my Mary,
O d nna bide lang in the Highlands frae me,
for I love you sincerely I love thee o'er dearly',
To be happy sae far my dear Mary frae thee.
I  winna bide lang my lad in the Highlands,
I canna bide lang for you winna bo there ;
At the' I hae frin's I like weel in the Highlands,"
The ane I  love best's on the banks o' the Ayr.

Then he kissed her red lips they were sweeter than roses,
And he strained her lily-white breast to his heart ;
And the tears fell like dew drops at e'en on his bosom,
As she said my fond lover, alas ! wo maun part.
Then farewell, he said and he flow frae his Mary,
O farewell said Mary — she could say nae mair—•
O little they thought they had parted for ever,
When they parted that night on the banks o' the Ayr.

Yet the green simmer saw but few sunny mornings,
Till she in the bloom o' her beauty and pride ;
Was laid in her grave like a bonny young flower,
In Greenock kirk-yard on the bunks o' the Clyde.
And Burns the sweet bard o' his ain Caledonia,
Lamented his Mary in many a sad strain ;
And sair did he weep for his dear Highland Mary,
And ne'er did his heart love so deeply again.

Then bring me the lilies, and bring me the roses,
And bring me the daises that grow in the vale ;
And bring me the dew o' the mild simmer evening,
And bring me the breath o' the sweet scented gale,
And bring me the sigh o' a fond lovers bosom,
And bring me the tear o' a fond lovers e'e ;
And I'll pour them a' doun on thy grave Highland Mary,
For the take o' thy Burns who  dearly loved thee.CAPTAIN
GLEN.

As I was walking to take the air,
To see the ships all sailing O,
The sailors all invited me on board,
And the captain likewise to his cabin O.

The ship she lay in the roads all night,
She went away in the morning O,
And the captain took his will of his bonny, bonny Bet,
And she is bome to the noble duke of Gordon O.

I have nae been here but scarcely half-a-year
When they blame me with a baoy in my apron O.
The servants me abuse and they do me sore accuse,
And they blame me with the noble duke of Gordon G.

My mistress she called me up the stairs,
She called me up in the morning O —
"The servants to me tell, but I know it well myself,
You're with child to the noble duke of Gordon O."

I turned myself right round about,
My face to the bonny walls of Gordon O,
I gave a comely smile, saying, " Mem, I am with child,
But it is not to your noble duke of Gordon O.

"It's young captain Glen is my true lover's name
He sails the salt seas over O;
I would not give a look of his manly face for you all,
No, nor yet for the noble duke of Gordon O

It's young captain Glen has come home again ,
He is inquiring for his lovely Betsy Gordon O;
He sent for a Priest and they are married in the east,
And she is as happy as the duchess of Gordon O.Diana Kitty Annie Maria

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this highly popular song can only
the had only in the Poet's Box


Tune-Original.

T'was in the month of June, when the birds were in full tune,              
I first met a charming little creature,
Her eyes they shone as bright as the twinkling stars at night,
And a kind smile played on every feature.
I said, my dearest belle, your name to me pray tell,
For you're just about the age I admire,
She tossed her pretty head as blushingly she said
My name's Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

CHORUS.
You should only see her feet, as she trips along the street,
She's just about the age to admire,
Such a girl is seldom seen, she's the pride of Glasgow Green,
Is my darling Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

She's the prettiest little foot, in a pretty little boot,
And a pretty little ankle, too believe me;
She's got such a pretty face, with a pretty little waist,
And she looks like a girl as won't deceive you.
No lady in the land has got a prettier hand,
And a pretty fortune left by her sire;
She's a beauty altogether, from her bonnet to boot leather,
is my darling Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

When we're in the West End Park, how the swells they all remark,                                                               
I should like to give that girl a dozen kisses,
Or, I'd give a quarter's pay to take her slick away,
For that must be the pinnacle of blisses.
Them tall soldiers in the Guards they wink so very hard,
And their manly forms most girls admire,         
But their winking games won't do for she sticks to me like glue,
Does my darling Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

I took her to a ball at the Free Trade Hall,
You should have seen her going through the Lancers,
On the light fantastic toe we round and round did go,
And we really did astonish all the dancers.
The Polka she can dance like any girl from France,
I had no idea she was such a flier-
So graceful, light, and airy, like a little flying fairy,
Is my darling Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

Single longer I won't tarry, for her I'm going to marry,
To the old parson I've been and given warning,
To make us into one, like a penny hot-cross bun,
In three weeks from next Monday morning.
With our little family how happy we shall be,
One boy and three girls we require-
For the little boy, do you see, shall be christened after me,
And the girls, Diana Kitty Annie Maria.

LETTERS, PETITIONS, VALENTINES, and LOVE
SONNETS, Written by the POET on the most reasonable
terms. All kinds of SCHEDULES filled up with the ut
most accuracy. In all cases the most invoilable secrecy
may be depended upon,

Saturday Morning, December 10, 1884.Donald of

Dundee.

Pitts Printer and  Wholesale Toy Warehouse
6, Great st Andrew street, 7 Dials,

YOUNG Donald is the blithest lad
That e'er made love to me,
Whene'er he's by my heart is glad,
He seems so gay and free.
Then on his pipe he play'd so sweet,
And in his plaid he looks so neat,
It cheers my heart at eye to meet,
Young Donald of Dundee,

Whene'er I gang to yonder grove,
Young Sandy fo'lows me
And fain he wants to be my love,
But, ah ; it cannot be,
Tho' mother frets both soon and late
For me to wed this youth I hate,
There's none need hope to gain young
Kate,
But Donald of Dunde.

When last we ranged the banks of Tay
The ring he shew'd to me,
And bade me name the bridal day,
Then happy we would be,
I ken the youth will e'er be  kind,
No mair my mother I will mind,
Mess John to me shall quickly join,
Young Donald of Dundee.FAREWEEL   TAE

BLAIRGOWRIE.

(Copyright.)
PEICE ONE PENNY.

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box,
182 OVERGATE DUNDEE.

As I gead oot ae May morning,
Ae morning very early,
There I spied a pretty fair maid,
Lamenting o' her dearie.

CHORUS.

So fare-ye-weel tae Blairgowrie,
Whaur oftimes I've been cheery;
An' fare-ye-weel tae Bromely Brae,
For I hae lost my dearie.

But I'll put on my grand gold ring,
An' wear it as a token,
Tae let the fouk ower there a' ken
The bonds o' love's been broken.

Noo I'll put on my braw new gown,
An wear it as a token ;
Tae let the fouk ower there a' ken
That I'm noo quite for gotten.

But there's just as guid fish in the sea
As ever has been taken;
So I'll cast my net an' try again,
Tho' I've been ance forsaken.

But I'll gang hame tae my ain wee toon,
Whaur I was bred an' born,
For there's a laddie that I ken,
Wha'll merry me the morn.

COLLECTON OF NEW AND POPULAR SONGS.
Which can be had at the Poet's Box'

or Maggie's Got A Bairn,
O ! What Has Chaing'd You.
I'll thnk Of Dear Mother at Home.
MyMothers Last Good-Bye,
Sweet Silvery Light Bonnie Moon,
In the Gloaming,
Dont Let Us Be Stranger's
Ture Till Death,
Big Rag Store,
Wheel Of Life
Call Me Back Again,
Wee Drappie o't,
Died Like A True Irish Soldier,
Do Not Turn Me From Your
Door,
Dundee Once More.
Rose Of Tralee,
Sailing, Sailing.
Skipper And His Boy.
Maid Of The Mill.

The Golden Weden,
Cottage Whar Burns Was Born,
The Danger Signal,
Oh ! Bonnie Scotland,
The Little Rustick Cottage,
The Slipry Stane.
Sweeping Causey Stones,
'Aint You Going to.
Don't Run Me In,
To-Morrow I Must Tackle On To
Twelve Stone Two,
Balaclave.
Charge Of The Light Brigade.
Volet From Mothers Grave,
A Frend of To-Day Is A Juda To
Morrow,
Pawnshop On Fire.
'Aint He A Dandy ?
The Sour Milk Cart.
Peek-a-Boo.Half-Past

TEN.

Robert Mclntosh, Printer, 203 Gallowgate.
GLASGOW.

I mind when I courted my ain wifie Jean
Tho' often I gaed, she seldom was seen,
For her faither-the elder-like  a' godly men;
Aye steekit his door about haif-past ten.

Ae Sacrament Sabbath I saw Jeanie hame,
Ony lad wi' his lassie wae hae dnne the same,
We crackit sae lang at the cezy fire en,
That the time slipt awa' tilt near half- past ten.

The worthy man read, syne rev'rentaly pray'd
An' when he was dune he solmnely said-
It has aye been the rule but tis likely ye ken
That we steek a' our doors about half-past ten,

The hint was enough fora blate lad like me,
But I catched a bit blink o' Jeanies black e'e,
As much as to say come ye back to the glen
And yo'll may be stay langer than half- past ten.

Ae night twa three lads an mysel did  agree,
To gang some place near jist to hae a bit spree
Quo I, what do ye think o' gaun doon to the glen,
For we're sure to be hame about half-past ten.

We a' were received wi' a hearty guid will,
An the elder nae less broached a cask o' his yill
Syne gaed aff to his bed, and says Jeanye'll attend,
That the doors are a luckit by half-past ten.

Ou ay, says Joan, but the best o' the joke   
was her slipp n ben and stopp \ill\n the clock,
I'm no gaun to tell you the boo or the  when,
But the hauns were'na pointing to half-past ten.

About four in the morning the auld man arose,
An lightin a spunk to the clock straught he goes-
Gude save us   guidwife, did ye hear me gae ben,
Le'd the lads are awa' afore half-past ten,

But the cat vera sune was let oot o' the pock,
By the keeklin o' hens an the craw o' the cock,
An' openin the shutters he clearly saw then
We wad a' hao our breakfasts ere half-past ten.

Ye ne'er heard such laughing a' the days o' yer life,
And nane were sae hearty s the auld man an' his wite
Quo he, what'll the lassies no dae for the men,
E'en cheat their auld faithers wi' half-past ten.

It was a settled then that Jean should be mine,
The wedding sune followed an' we're aye sinsyne,
Leev'd happy thegither, an' hope to the en',
We'll aye min' that nicht an' its half-past ten.

And noo a wee bit advice I wad gie-          
Ne'er stint young folks time when they gang to a' spree,
I'm a faither mysel' but brawly I ken,
That the fun jist begins about half-past ten.JEMIMA BROWN.

PRICE ONE PENNY

Copies of this very popular song can only be had in
the POET'S Box

Tune-Original.

At a railway station
Upon the Brighton line,
I first met my Jemima,
Why should I call her mine?
Her hair was light, her eyes were bright 
Her dress A morning gown,
A trav'ling box stood by her side,
And on it Jemima Brown.

Chorus -
I used to take her everywhere,
To all the sights in town,
And then she left me in despair,
Did naughty Jemima Brown,

At a baby-linen builders,
In the Burlington Arcade,
I next saw Miss Jemima,
As past the shops I strayed.
She looked the queen of a sewing machine,
I spent there many a crown,
In collars and straps, and babies' caps,
To gaze at Jemima Brown.

I sought an introduction,
Obtained it-all was right- 
At eight o'clock I'd meet her,
And walk home every night.
To seal our loves I bought her gloves,
To Cremorne we went down,
Took tea and shrimps, drank bitter beer,
And waltzed with Jemima Brown

One night I flew to meet her,
The weather yet was warm,
I saw her fondly leaning
On a smart young fellow's arm
Against my will, I felt quite ill,
Enquiring, with a frown,
"Who's that ?" " It's only brother Bill,"
Said naughty Jemima Brown,

"I want to ask a favour,
I hope you won't be cross,
Or think it bad behaviour,
But father had a loss.
Would you kindly lend us fifty pounds,
My brother he'll be bound,"
Of course I would, could I refuse
My life to Jemima Brown,

From that very day I missed her,
Though she said she'd be my bride-
From Kensington to Chester
I sought her far and wide.
Years after that, when passing by
A shop in Camden town,
'Midst heaps of greens, and kidney beans,
There stood Jemima Brown.

She was weighing out potatoes,
Throwing coppers in the till-
Three lovely children by her side,
The image of brother Bill.
Her broken vow I see It now,
But not my fifty pound-
That shop was BOUGHT and I was SOLD
By naughty Jemima Brown.

Saturday Morning, Oct. 28,1865.KITTY WELLS.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's For,
182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.

You ask what makes this darkie weep,
Why he like othsrs was not gay,
What makes the tears flow down his cheek
From early morn till close of day.
My story, white folks, you shall hear,
For in my memory it fresh does bwell.
It will make you all shed a tear
O'er the grave of my own sweet Kitty Wells.

CHORUS

When the birds were singing in the morning,
The myrtle and the ivy were in bloom,
And the sun o'er the hill was dawning,
It was there where I laid her in the tomb

I never shall forget the time
When we together roamed the dells,
I kissed her cheeks, and named the day
That I should marry Kitty Wells.
But death came to my cabin door
And stole from me my joy and pride,
And when I found she was no more,
I laid my banjo gently down and cried.

Oft-times I wish that I was dead,
And laid beside her in the tomb,
The sorrow that new bows down my heart
Would be silent in the midnight gloom.
The spring time hath no chaams for me,
Nor the flowers blooming in the dells,
But there's a ferm I no more shall see,
Tis form of my own sweet Kitty  Wells.

Songs sent to any  part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along  with an
extra stamp to ensure a  free return per post. Immediate
despatch  may  by  relied  upon.Lord Beigham.

Young Beigham was a noble Lord,
a noble lord of high degree,
He got himself on board a ship,
Some foreign countries for to see.
He sailed east he sailed west,
Till he came to Turkey,
When he was taken and put in prison,
Till of his life he was quite weary.

Now in prison grew a tree,
It grew so stout and it grew so strong.
But he was chained down by the middle.
Until his life was nearly gone.
The Turk he had one only daughter,
A fairer creature he never did see,
She stole the keys of her father's prison,
And swore she would Lord Beigham set free.

She took him to her father's celler.
and gave to him the best of wine,
And every braw health she drank to him,
I wish Lord Beigham you were mine.
For seven long years I'll make a vow.
If thou wilt  wed with no other woman,
I'ts I will wed with no other man.

She took him to her father's harbour,
And gave to him a ship of fame,
Farewell, farewell unto you Lord Beigham,
I'm afraid I ne'er shall see you again.
And fifteen days were known to be,
She packed up all her gay clothing,
And swore Lord Beigham she'd go and see.

And when she came to Lord Beigham's castle.
So loudly she rang at the bell,
who'se there, who'se there, cries the porter,
Who'se there unto me tell,
Is this quoth she young Beigham's castle,
Or is his Lordship now within,
O yes, O yes, cries the young porter.
He's just now taking his young bride in.

Go tell him bring a slice of bread,
And a bottle of his best wine.
And not forget the young Turkish Lady.
Who did release him when close confined.
Away then ran the bold young porter,
As fast as ever he could flee.
Until he came to Beigham's chamber,
Then on his bended knees fell he.

What news, what news, my bold young porter
What news have you brought to me,
O yonder is one of the fairest lady,
That ever my two eyes did see.
She has got rings upon each finger,
On some of them she has got three.
And as much gay gold up to the middle.
As would buy the whole of this country

You are to send her a slice of bread,
And a bottle of your best wine,
And do not forget the Turkish lady
Young Beigham in a passion flew.
And broke his sword in splinters three,
Saving I will save all my father's riches,
Since fair Susanah has crossed the sea.

Out spoke the young bride's mother.
She never was beard to speak so free,
You'll not forget my only daughter.
The fair Susan has crossed the sea.
I own I made a bride of your daughter,
She's neither better nor worse for me,
She came to me on a horse and saddle,
I'll send her back in a coach and three.

Now they've prepaired for another marriage,
With both their hearts quite full of glee,
I'll roam no more to foreign nations,
Since fair Susannah has crossed the sea.Lurgan Braes.

The Summer time being in its prime,
The weather calm and clear,
My troubled mind no peace can find,
For thinking on my dear.

I left that town called Port-a-Down,
Unto Woodside I came,
Where all alone I make my moan
To Kelvin's purling streams.

Streams, says I, as I pass by,
Give ear to what I say.
How can you roll without control
To such a foreign quay.

Ye murmers bewail my bosom sorely,
Here stands a prentice boy,
He'll never prove false to the girl he loves,
Till Kelvin streams run dry.

Till Kelvin streams run dry my love,
And rocks melt wi' the sun.
He'll never prove false to the girl he loves,
Till Kelvin streams run done.

There is many a pretty little fish,
Swims in yon river clear :
There is many a long and weary mile,
Between me and my dear.

There is many a flower grows in yon bower,
But now your fancy please;
He sobbed and cried he loved a maid,
Lived near to Lurgan Braes.

There is a bonnie wee lass,
In my ain countrie,
And her I will go and see.
And if she's dead or if she's wed I'm at my
	liberty.

If ever I chance to go that way,
As I suppose I may,
will call and see the lass I loved,
Once lived on Lurgan Braes,

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Whole-
sale Stationer, 9 King Street, (off Trongate)
Glasgow.Maggy Lawder.

Charles Pigott, Printer, 52, Compton Street,
Clerkenwell, London.

WHA' wadna' be in lor,
Wi' bonny Maggy Lawder,
A piper met her gaw on to fife,
He spierd wat was they ca'd her,
Right scornfully she answer'd him,
Begone ye hawlin shaker,
Jog on ye're gait ye blathering skait,
My name is Maggy Lawder.
Fol de rol de rol, &c.

Maggy quo' he and by my bags,
I am fidging fain to see thee,
Sit down by me thou bonny bird,
In troth I will not steer thee,
For I am a piper to my trade,
My name is Rob the Ranter,
The lasses coup as tho' they were daft,
When I blow'd up my chaunter.
Fol de rol, &c.

Then to his bags he flew with speed,
And about the drone he twisted,
Then up jump'd Mag & wallop'd o'er the green,
For brawley she could frisk it;
Well done quo' he, play up quo' she,
Well bobb'd quo' Rob the Ranter,
It's worth my while to play indeed,
When I have such a dancer.
Fol de rol, &c.

Weel hae ye play'd ye're part quo' Mag,
Ye're face is like the crimson,
There is nain in Scotland plays sae weel,
Since we lost Habby Simpson;
I've liv'd in Fife, baith maid and wife,
These ten years and a quarter,.
Gin ye come to our Easter Fair,
Speir ye for Maggy Lawder.
Fol de rol, &c.MARY
MACKREE.

See. 11.                            --------------


In a small country cottage by the side of a moor,
Oh there lived one Mary Mackree,
And she kept the sign of the Bell and the Boar,
And very good liquor sold she.
Mary being old, scarce could hobble about,
She kept a servant girl to serve the liquor out,
As bonny a lass as ever you did see,
Sold ale to the customers of Mary Mackree,

Mary had a son whose name was Dau,
He minded the farm add the cows,
A strapping young blade of about seventeen,
And rakish as you may suppose.
Dan he looked sly at his mother's fair maid
And she looked sly at whatever Dan said :
So that all the neighbours might very plainly see
That he lov'd the lass, and the lass Dan Mackree.

The maid fell sick, as most maids will,
Which made her look pale and wan,
Says Mary get you to bed and lie still,
And I'll send thee a posset by Dan.
The maid being willing did as she was told,
And Dan stood by while the posset it was boiled,
Then upstairs he carried it right merrily,
I pray thee make her take it, says Mary Makree.

These old fashion'd stairs had many a turn,
And many a scheme had Dan,
When arrive at the top, a thought came into his head,
And soon he contrived a plan.
Daniel he being a right cunning blade,
Be knew very well how to humour the maid ;
He drank up the posset the old mother planned
Resolved to give it the maid second hand,

He had not been long before he jumped into bed,
And soon cruel work there began,
Says old Mother Maekree, what's to do over bead ?
Why she won't take the posset, says Dan.
Take it fool, take it, It will do thee no harm,
It will nourish thee and cherish thee and keep thy belly
warm,
The maid thought her mistress knew better than she,
so accepted the posset from Daniel Mackree.MARY

MACKREE.

See. 11.                       ------------

In a small country cottage by the side of a moor,
Oh there lived one Mary Mackree,
And she kept the sign of the Bell and the Boar,
And very good liquor sold she.
Mary being old, scarce could hobble about,
She kept a servant girl to serve the liquor out.
As bonny a lass as ever you did see,
Sold ale to the customers of Mary Mackree.

 Mary had a son whose name was Dan,
He minded the farm and the cows,
A strapping young blade of about seventeen,
And rakish as you may suppose.
Dan he looked sly at his mother's fair maid
And she looked sly at whatever Dan said :
So that all the neighbours might very plainly see
That be lov'd the lass, and the lass Dan Mackree.

The maid fell sick, as most maids will,
Which made her look pale and wan,
lays Mary get you to bed and lie still,
And I'll send thee a posset by Dan.
The maid being willing did as she was told,
And Dan stood by while the posset it was boiled,
Then upstairs he carried it right merrily,
I pray thee make her take it, says Mary Makree.

These old fashion'd stairs had many a turn,
And many a scheme had Dan,
When arrive at the top, a thought came into  bis bead,
And soon he contrived a plan.
Daniel he being a right cunning blade,
He knew very well how to humour the maid ;
He drank up the posset the old mother planned
Resolved to give it the maid second hand,

He had not been long before he jumped into bed,
And soon cruel work there began,
fays old Mother Mackree, what's to do over head ?
Why she won't take the posset, says Dan.
Take it fool, take it, It will do thee no harm,
It will nourish thee and cherish thee and keep thy belly
warm,
The maid thought her mistress knew better than she,
So accepted the posset from Daniel Mackree.PRETTY CAROLINE.

One morning in the month of May,
It's sweetly shone the sun,
All on the banks of daisies gay,
There sits a lovely one.
She did appear as good as fair,
Her dark brown hair did shine,
And showed the neck and bosom bare    
Of my Pretty Caroline.

Her lips were of the rosy red ;
Her cheeks like the rose did bloom ;
Her eyes like diamonds in her head ;
And her breath a sweet perfume.
The song she sang my love's away,
It pierced this heart of mine,
To listen to the melody
Of my pretty Caroline.

Then lovely maid , to her I said ,
Don't yon remember me ?
I am your jolly sailor bold
That has ploughed the raging sea.
For the courting of a pretty maid ,
Her parents did combine ,
And sent me aboard of a man-of-war
From my pretty Caroline.

For seven long years I was bound,
All for to serve the Queen,
Where ratling cannons loud did roar,
And made the deep sea ring.
My gold in store I've brought on shore,
And freely does incline,
To share it all, and a ring that's more,
With pretty Caroline.

This maiden fair, 'tween joy and despair,
Away from me she drew—
Then stand away without delay,
Unless you tell me true.
Produce the ring of virgin gold,
And the lock of hair that's mine,
For no mortal man shall e'er trepan,
Young faithful Caroline.

The ring of gold and lock of hair,
Young William he did show,
When young Caroline she did behold,
Said unto some church we'll go.
And in some lofty mansion,
With rapture we will shine,
The young sailor blessed the month of May,
He met his Caroline.                                   THE GUM-TREE CANOE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular Song can always be at the Poet's Box
182 OVERGATE,  DUNDEE.

On the Tombigby river, in a hut a born,
In a hut made of stalks of the tall yallow corn;
It was there I met with my Julia so true,
And we went for a sail in my gum-tree canoe.

CHORUS-

Row away,  row away, o'er the waters blue,
Like a feather we float in my gum-tree canoe;
Row away, row away, o'er the waters biue,
Like a feather we float in my gum-tree canoe.

With my thumb on my banjo, my foot on my oar,
I sang a sweet song to the wild water's roar;
The stars looked down on my Julia so true,
And they danced like her eyes in my gum-tree canoe.

One night we had wander'd so far, far away,
We could not get back. so we had just to stay;
We espied a big ship with a flag of true blue,
And they took us in tow in our gum-treee canoe.

A LIST OF NEW AND POPULAR SONGS.

Am I Right Or Any Other Man.		The Dooley fitba' Club
Kitty Wells,				Nil  Desperandum.
There's A Corner For You At My		The  Dundee  A,   B,  C.
Fireside still,			The Old  Brigade.
A Parody on Home Sweet Home.		Half Past Ten.
Oh ! Bonnie Scot land.			The Shepherd's Daughter.
Home Rule Bill,				Back In The Spring.
Jessie's Dream A   Lucknow,		'Tis But A Little Faded Flower.
The Song Of the Emigrant.		John Anderson My Jo. a reading
the Lodger Mick  M'Cue,			No! Sir,  No;
We're A John  Thamsons  Bairns		Cumarachandhu,
Pittin' In  The Cries, a reading,	The  Wondrous  Telephone.
Mill Of The Maid.  A Parody On		Ever Of Thee.
the Maid Of The Mill.			My  Heather Hills.
The Cradles Empty Baby's Gone.		M-O-N-E-Y,
The miller Of Drone,			The Cup Of Cold Water.
Farewell Tae Blairgowrie.		Poor Old Jeff.
Coal Jock.				The Bonnet's o' Blue;
The Iron horse.				Lamentation On The Lost. Whitt


SONGS— By sending the name of any Song and 2d. in
stamps ALMOST ANY SONG YOU WANT will he
sent by return of Post; if the song wanted is not in stock,
a book containing nearly all the latest Songs and Ballads
of the day will be sent.

A D RE S S—

Mr.  William Shepherd,
P O E T' S  BOX,
182 Overgate,
DUNDEE,The Monk and the Miller's Wife;   or, A' Parties Pleased.

Copies can always be had in the POET'S BOX, 80 London Street, Glasgow, Price ONE PENNY.

Now lond your lugs, ye benders fine,
Wha kon the benefit of wine ;
And you wha laughing foud brown ale,
Leave jinks a wee and hear a tale.
An honest miller dwall'd in Fife,
That had a young and wanton wife,
Wha sometimes thol'd the parish priest
To mak' her man a twa-horn'd beast;
He paid right mony visits till her,
And to keep in with Hab the miller,
He endeavour'd aft to make him happy,
Where'er he kend the ale was nappy,
Such condescension in a pastor,
Knit Halbert's love to him the faster;
And by his converse, troth 'tis true,
Hab learn'd to preach when he was fou.
Thus all the three were wond'rous pleas'd,
the wife well serv'd, the man well eas'd,
Hab ground his corn, the priest did cherish
Himsel' with dining round the parish.
Bess, the goodwife, thought it nae skaith,
Since she was fit, to serve them baith.
When equal is the night with day,
And Ceres gives the schools the play,
A youth sprung from a gentle pater,
Bred at St. Andrew's alma mater,
Ae day gaed hameward, it fell late,
And him benighted by the gate:
To lie without, pit-mirk did shore him,
He couldna see his thumb before him;
But, clack—clack—clack, he heard a mill,
Which led him by the lugs theretill.
To take the thread of tale alang,
This mill to Halbert did belang,
Nor less this note your notice claims,
The scholar's name was Master James.
Now, smiling muse, the prelude past;
Smoothly relate, a tale shall last
As lang as Alps and Grampian hills,
As lang as wind or water mills.
In enter'd James, Hab saw and kend him,
And offer'd kindly to befriend him
With sic good cheer as he could make,
Baith for his ain and father's sake.
The scholar thought himsel' right sped,
And gave thanks in terms well-bred.
Quoth Hab, "I canna leave my mill
As yet;—but stap ye wast the kill
A bow-shot, and ye'll find my hame:
Gae warm ye, and crack with our dame,
Till I Sot aff the mill, syne we
Shall tak' what Bessy has to' gi'e."
James, in return, what's handsome said,
O'er lang to tell; and aff he gaed.
Out of the house some light did shino,
Which led him till't as with a line:
Arriv'd, he knock'd,—for doors were steekit;—
Straight through a window Bessy keekit,
And cries, "Wha's that gi'es folk a fright
At sic untimeous time of night ?"
James, with good humour most discreetly,
Told her his circumstance completely.
" I dinna ken yo," quoth the wife,
" And up and down the thieves are rife;
Within my lane, I'm but a woman,
Sae I'll unbar my door tae nae man,—
But, since 'tis very like, my dow,
That all you're telling may be true,
Hae, there's a key, gang in your way
At the neist door,—there's braw ait strae ;—
Streek down upon't, my lad, and learn
They're no ill lodged wha get a barn."
Thus, after meikle elitter clatter,
James fand he couldna mend the matter ;
And since it might nae better be,
With resignation took the key;
Unlocked the barn—clamb up the mou',
Where was an opening near the hou',
Through which he saw a glint of light,
That gave diversion to the sight:
By this he quickly could discern
A thin wa' separate house and barn,
And through this rive was in the wa',
All done within the house he saw:
He saw (what ought not to be seen,
And scarce gie'd credit to his een)
The parish priest of rev'rend fame
In active courtship with the dame—
To lengthen out description here
Would but offend the modest ear,

And beet the lewder youthfu' flame,
Which we by satire strive to tame.
Suppose the wicked action o'er,
And James continuing still to glow'r;
He saw the wife as fast as able,
Spread a clean servite on the table,
And syne, frae the ha' ingle bring ben
A piping-het young roasted hen,
And twa good bottles, stout and clear,
Ane of strong ale, and ane of beer.
But wicked luck just as the priest
Shot in his fork in chucky's breast,
The unwelcome miller gi'e'd a roar,
Cry'd, "Bessy, haste ye open the door."—
With that the haly letcher fled,
And darn'd himsel' behint a bed;
While Bessy huddl'd a' things by,
That nought the cuckold might espy:
Syne let him in,—but out of tune,
Speer'd why he left the mill sae soon;
" I come," said he, " As manners claims,
To wait and crack wi' Master James,
Which I should do, tho' ne'er sae bissy;
I sent him here, goodwife, where is he ?"
"Ye sent him here !" (quoth Bessy, grumbling,)
" Kend I this James.   A chiel came rumbling,
But how was I assur'd, when dark,
That he had been nae thievish spark,
Or some rude wencher, gotten a dose;
That a weak wife could ill oppose."
"But what came of him [  ] speak nae langer,"
Cries Halbert in a Highland anger.
"I sent him to the barn," quoth she:
" Gae quickly bring him in," quoth he.
James was brought in—the wife was bawked—
The priest stood close—the miller cracked—
Syne spcer'd his sulky gloomy spouse,
What supper she had in the house;
That might be suitable to gi'e
Ane of their lodger's quality.
Quoth she, " Ye may well ken, goodman,
Your feast comes frae the parritch pan :
The stov'd or roasted we afford,
Are aft great strangers on our board."
"Parritch," quoth Hab, "ye senseless tawpie !
Think ye this youth's a gilly-gawpy;
Or that his gentle stamock's master
To worry up a pint o' plaister,
Like our mill knaves that lift the laiding,
Wha's kytes can rax out like raw plaiding,
Swith, roast a hen, or fry some chickens,
And send for ale frae Maggie Picken's.
" Aye, aye," quoth she, " ye may well ken,
'Tis ill brought but that's no there ben;
Whan but last owk nae farder gane,
The laird got a' to pay his kain."
Then James wha had as good a guess
Of what was in the house, as Bess,
With pawkey smile this plea to end,
To please himsel' and ease his friend,
First open'd with a sleo oration
His wond'rous skill in conjuration.
Said he, " By this fell art I'm able
To whop off any great man's table
Whate'er I like to mak' a meal o',
Either in part, or yet the hale o',
And, if ye please,  I'll show my art,—
Cries Halbert,—"Faith, with a' my heart !"—
Bess fain'd hersel',—cry'd, " Lord bo here !"
And ne'er hand fell a swoon wi' fear.
James lough,—and bade her nathing dread,
Syne to conjuring went with speed ;
And first he drew a circle round,
Then utter'd many a magic sound
Of words, part Latin, Greek and Dutch,
Enough to fright a very witch:
That done, James says, "Now, now, 'tis come,
And in the boal behind the lum:
Now set the board; goodwife gae ben,
Bring frae yon boal a roasted hen."
She wadna gang, but Haby ventur'd:
And soon as he the ambrie enter'd,
It smell'd sap well, short time he sought it,
But, wond'ring, 'tween his hands he brought it.
He viewed it round, and thrice he smell'd it,
Syne with a gentle touch he felt it.
Thus ilka sense he did conveen,
Lest glamour had beguil'd his e'en:
They all in a united body,
Declar'd it a fine fat how towdy.

"Nae mair about it," quoth the miller,
"The hen looks well, and we'll fa' till her."
" Sae be't," says James; and in a doup,
They snapt her up baith stoup and roup.
" Neist, oh !" cries Halbert, "could your skill
But help us to a waught of ale,
I'd be oblig'd t' ye a' my life,
And offer tae the deil my wife,
To see if he'll descreeter mak' her,
But, oh, I'm fleed he winna tak' her."
Said James, " Ye offer very fair,
The bargain's hadden, sae nae mair."
Then thrice James shook a willow wand,
With kittle words thrice gave command;
That done, with looks baith learn'd and grave,
Said, " Now ye'll get what ye wad have;
Twa bottles of as nappy liquor
As ever ream'd in horn or bicquor,
Ahint the ark that hauds your meal,
Ye'll find twa standing corket weel."
James said, syne fast the miller flew;
And frae their nest the bottles drew;
Then first the scholar's health he toasted;
Wha's magic gart him feed on roasted;
His faither's neist,—syne a' the rest
Of his good friends that wish'd him best,
Greatly o'er langsome at this time,
In a short tale to put in rhyme.
Thus, while the miller and the youth,
Were blythly slock'ning of their drowth;
Bess fretting, scarcely held frae greeting; 
The priest, enctos'd, stood vex'd and sweating,
" O wow !" said Hab, " If ane might speer,
Dear Master James, wha brought our cheer
Sic laits appear tae us sae awfu',
We hardly think your learning lawfu'."
"To bring your doubts to a conclusion,"
Says James, "Ken I'm a Rosicrucian,
Ane of the set that never carries
On traffic with black deils or fairies;
There's mony a sp'rit that's no a deil,
That constantly around us wheel.
There was a sage called Albumazor,
Wha's wit was gleg as ony razor :
Frae this great man we learned the skill,
To bring these gentry to our will;
And they appear, when we've a mind,
In ony shape of human kind:
Now, if you'll drap your foolish fear;
I'll gar my Pacelot appear."
Hab fidged and leugh, his elbuck clew,
Baith feared and fond a sp'rit to view:
At last his courage wan the day,
He to the scholar's will give way.
Bessy by this began to smell
A rat, but kept her mind to'r sel';
She prayed like howdy in her drink,
But meantime tipt young James a wink.
James frae his eye an answer sent,
Which made the wife right well content;
Then turned to Hab, and thus advised,
" Whate'er you see, be nought surprised,
And for your sonl, move not your tongue;
But ready stane with a great rung;
Syne as the spirit goes marching out,
Be sure to lend him a sound rout:
I bidna this by way of mocking,
For nought delights him mair than knocking."
Hab got a kent—stood by the hallan,
And straight the wild mischievous callan
Cries, "Radamanthus husky mingo,
Monk Horner, hipock, jinko, jingo,
Appear in likeness of a priest,
No like a deil in shape Of beast,
With gaping chafts to fleg us a':
Walk forth, the door stands to the wa'."
Then frae the hole whaur ho was pent,
The priest approached, right well content ;
With silent pace strade o'er the floor,
Till he was drawing near the door;
Then to escape the cudgel, ran,
But was not missed by the goodman.
Wha lent him on the neek a loundor,
That gart him o'er the threshold Hounder.
Darkness soon hid him from their sight :
Ben flew the miller in a fright;
" I trow," quoth he, " I laid well on;
But wow, he's like our ain Mesa John I"

Saturday, July 15, 1871.The New Way of



BONNY JEAN.



(   I   )     The Nymph.
Loves fairest youth, in blooming May,
Stood Musing by a River Side,
Where the Bright Godde/s of the Day,
Had deck'd the Plain in Glorious Pride:
Then Laurels green crown'd bonny Jean,
And secret Flames bred Constancy;
Almighty Jove soon from above,
Fix'd Love's sweet Passions in her Eye.

(2 )
God Cupid and his Golden Rays,
With Speed towards the Fountain drew;
He at a Distance views the Blaze ;
And hopes to make it change its Hew:
Then Whispers fast with Glances past,
And Raptures slew their Breasts between,
A trembling Air did seize the Fair,
And stop'd the Course of bonny Jean.

(   3   )    
The Wreaths of Gold about her Neck,
Did with a splendid Lusture Shine,
The Christal Streams secm'd to reflect
Her Beauty that appear'd Divine :
Love's Murmurs sweet was there compleat
And Fancy was supply'd by Art;  
They pop'd for Day prolonged its Ray,
And quiet'd in the Female's Heart.

(   4   )
Hyperion with Golden Care,
Did from the Eastern Ocean move,
And blustring Mars, that God of War,
In Glistening Arms approach'd the Grove:
Then Pallas Wife did first advise,
Who best affects the Charmer's Love,
If Mars, or he Apollo be,
Fit to compet with powerful Jove.

(5)
Still Cupid seem'd to fear no Harm ;
He stricks the Charmer to the Heart,
And gives her Beauty an Alarm,
To raise and act a Lover's Part:
With killing Eyes to Mar she flys,
And sets the Warlike God apart,
She leaves the Grove to follow Love,
And thanks kind Cupid for the Dart.

(   6   )
No more she'll hover o're the Plains,
Or view the Water's empty Sholds,
No more she'll ufe amongst the Swains;
That bears a Sway in Cupid's Folds;
Her Eye's a Lamp to Venus Camp,
Where soft perfuming Flames do burn
The Robs of Green dispis'd by Jean,
Are only fit for those that mourn.
FINIS.

Edinburgh, Printed by John Reid in Pearson's Closs, 1719. The New way of Gaberlunyman.

To it's own proper New Tune,

ONce in a Morning Sweet and Fair,
as I went forth to take the Air,
I spip'd a Nimph without Compare,
was following the Gaberlunyman.

I thought it had DIAN A been,
Or Nell of Troy that I had seen,
I ask'd at her what she did mean,
by following the Gaberlounyman?

A Couucill of the GOD's above,
they all Convined and did aprove,
They all agreed that I should Love,
and follow the Gaberlunyman.

Although his Robes be not so fyne,
his Grace and Face appears Divine
Although I were of Europe Queen
I'de follow the Gaberlunyman.

Altho' he's not at my Command,
Ple Foot the Alpes and the trade Sand
Since I am bound in mutuall Bond,
to follow the Gaberlunanyman,

I hope to see my Love again
altho I am lest to Sigh and moan
Ple sell my Gown of Satian Green
for my own Gaber lunyman.

More fine then the Pole Starr above    .
On which th'uncertain Earth doth move
I've fix'd my Heart I'll constant prove
to my dear Gaberlunzie Man.

In Spight of amours, in Spight  of Fate'
in Spight of those that do him hate,

My flaming Love shall never abate
from my dear Gaberluazie Man.

When first I heard and read long since,
He was by Birth a noble prince.
Pity,my Heart did soon convince,
to love the Gaberlunzie Man.

But Oh! when first his Mind he told,
he askt me for his Bride behold:
My virgin Blushes could not hold
from loving the Gaberlunzy Man.

In Extessy of Love I grew,
I long'd, I sight'd, I ran, I flew:
My Heart did burn like Wine that's new,
to my dear Gaberlunzy Man.

Tho' Cruelty does now combine
to stop such heavenly Bless like mine,
My tender Years could ne're decline
from my dear Gaberlunzy Man

With him in tranced Joys I live
I ease his Cares, he does not grieve;
Just Heavens may once us both relieve,
and bless my Gaberlunzy Man.

All Prophets tell this happy Year
will put an End to all Dispair,
Make Rivells from Earth to disappear,
and love my Gaberlunzy Man.

Ne're match with Rogues to your Dis-
take Caveliars into their Place, grace
Then we'll bring forth a happy Race,
to my dear Gaberlunzy Man.

F I N I SThe Northern DITTY;



Or the SCOTCHMAN Outwitted by a Country DAMSEL

COLD and raw the North did blow,
 Bleak in the morning early;
All the trees were hid with snow,
Covered with winter early.
As I was riding over the Slough,
  I met a farmer's Daughter,
With rosy cheeks and bonny brow,
Good faith my chops did water.  
Down I wav'd my bonnet low,
Meaning to shew my breeding,
She return'd a graceful bow,
Her visage far exceeding.
I asked her where she was going so soon,

 And long'd to hold a parley ;
She told me to the next market town,
On purpose to sell her barley. 
In this purse, sweet soul, said I,
Twenty pounds lie fairly,
Seek no farther one to buy,

For Ise take all thy barley.
And twenty pounds more shall purchase
Thy person I love so dearly,     (delight
If tbou wilt lig with me all night,
And gang home in the morning early,
If forty pounds would say the globe,
This thing I would not do, Sir,
Or were my friends as poor as JOB,
I'd never raise them so, Sir.
For would you prove one night my friend

Wese get a young kid together,
And you'd be gone e'er nine months end,

Then where should  I find the father ?
Pray what would my father say,

If I should be so silly
To throw my maidenhead away,

And lose my true love Billy.

O  this would bring me to disgrace,
And therefore I say you Nay, Sir,

But if that you will me embrace,
First marry, and then you may, Sir,

I told her I had married been,

Fourteen years and longer,
Else I'd chuse you for my Queen,

And fasten the knot stronger,
She bid me then no farther roam,

But manage my wedlock fairly,

And keep my purse for spouse at home,
For some other should buy her barley.
Then swift as any roe,                 
She rode away and left me;
And after her I could not go,
   Of  joy she quite bereft me,
Thus I myself did disappoint,

For she did leave me fairly,
My words knock'd all things of of joint,

I lost both the maid and barley.
RIDING down a narrow lane,

Some two or three hours after,
There I chanc'd to meet again

This bonny farmer's daughter :
Altho' it was both raw and cold,

I staid to hold a parley,
And shew'd once more my purse of gold,

When she had sold her barley.
Love, said I, pray do not frown,

But let us change embraces,
I'll buy thee silken gown,

With ribbons, gloves, and laces,
A ring and bodkin, muff, and fan,

No lady shall have neater ;

For as I am an honest man ;

I ne'er saw a sweeter creature.
Then I took her by the hand,   

And said, My dearest jewel,
Why shouldest thou disputing stand,

I pray thee be not cruel. 
She found my mind was fully bent,

To pleasure my fond desire,
Therefore  she seemed to consent,

But I wish'd I had ne'er come nigh her
Sir, said she, what shall I do,

If I commit this evil,
And yeild myself love to you,

I hope you will be civil,
You talk of ribbons, gloves, and rings,
And likewise gold and treasure,

O let me first enjoy these things
Then you shall have your pleasure,

Sure thy will shall be obey'd be obey'd,

Said I, my own dear honey;
Then into her lap I laid

Full forty pounds in money:
We'll to the market town this day,
And straitway end this quarrel,
And deck thee like a lady gay,

In flourishing apparel.
All my gold and Silver there

To her I did deliver,
On the road we did repair,

Out coming to a river,
Whose waters were both deep and wide,

Such rivers I ne'er saw many;
She leapt her mare on the other side,

And left me not one penny:           

Then my heart was sung full low,

With grief and care surrounded:
After her I could not go,   

For fear of being drowned :
She turn'd about, and said behold,

I am not for your devotion ;
But Sir, I thank you for your gold,

'T will help to enlarge my portion.

I began to stamp and stare,

To see what she had acted;
With my hand I tore my hair,

Like one that was quite distracted.
Give me my money then I cry'd,

Good faith I did but lend it;
But she full fast away did ride,

And vow'd she did not intend it.Whistle  my   love   and
I'll Come  Down.

Pitls Printer and  Wholesale Toy Warehouse
6 Great St Andrew street 7 Dial

PEGGY's a maid both kind and fair
And Peggy is dear to Johnnie,
And none in all Scot' and here or there

None is so blythe and bonny,
And Peggy has vow'd their love to crown
O whistle my love and I'll come down,
And gang to the kirk with Johnny,

Peggy can sing both soft and sweet,

And Peggy can play so sprightly,
And when in the dance she moves her
There's none can trip it so lightly (feet
And Peggy has vow'd their loves to crown
O whistle my love and I'll come  down,
And hie to the kirk with Johnny,

Peggy has nought of airs and pride,
And Peggy has nought of riches,

But she has worth and charms beside,
That everv eye bewitches,     (crown,

And  Peggy has  vowed their loves  to

O whistle my love and I'll come down
And hie to the kirk with  Johnny.BURNS AND HIS HIGHLAND MARY.

In green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers
Sae enraptured and happy in each ither's arms,
As Burns the sweet bard and his dear Highland Mary.
And fondly and sweetly he sang o' her charms.
And lang will his sang sae enchanting and bonnie,
Be heard with delight on his ain native plains ;
And lang will the name o' his dear Highland Mary
Be sacred to love in his heart-melting strains.

O, 'twas a May day, and the flowers o' the summer
Were blooming in wildness a' lovely and fair,
That our two lovers met in a grove o' sweet bowers,
Which grew on the banks o' the clear winding Ayr.
And O, to them baith 'twas a meeting fu' tender,
And it was the last for a while they should hae ;
Sae love's purest raptures they tasted thegether,
Till the red setting sun showed the close of the day.

O, Mary, dear Mary, exclaimed her fond lover,
Ye carry my heart to the Highlands with thee;
Every burnie and bank, every grove and green bower,
May talk o' the love o' my lassie and me.
My life's sweetest treasure, my ain charming Mary,
To thee I'll be ever devoted and true;
For the heart that is beating sae fast in this bosom,
The heart that can never love ony but you.

O, dinna bide lang in the Highlands, my Mary.
O, dinna bide lang in the Highlands frae me ;
For I love thee sincerely, I love thee ower dearly,
To be happy sae far, my dear Mary, frae thee.
I winna bide lang, my dear lad, in the Highlands,
I winna bide lang, for ye winna be there;
Although I hae friends I like weel in the Highlands,
The ane I lo'e best's on the banks o' the Ayr.

Then he kissed her red lips, they were sweeter than
rose,
And he strained her lily white breast to his heart;

And her tears fell like dew drops at e'en on his bosom,
As she said my fond lover, alas ! we must part.
Then farewell, he said, and flew frae his Mary;
O farewell, said Mary, she could sae nae mair;
O little they kent they had parted for ever.
When they parted that night on the banks o' the Ayr.

But the green summer  saw   but  a  few  summer
mornings,
Till she in the bloom of her beauty and pride,
Was laid in the grave like a bonny young flower,
In Greenock kirkyard, on the banks o' the Clyde.
And Burns, the sweet bard o' his ain Caledonia,
Lamented his Mary in many a sad strain ;
Ah ! sair did he weep for his dear Highland Mary;
And ne're did his heart love sae deeply again.

Then bring me the lilies and bring me the roses,
And bring me the daisies that grow on the vale ;
And bring me the dew of a midsummer evening,
And bring me the breath of the sweet scented gale;
And bring me the sigh of a fond lover's bosom,
And bring me the tear of a fond lover's e'e.
And I'll pour them a' down on thy grave, Highland
Mary.
For the sake o' thy Burns, wha dearly lo'ed thee.

Gae bring tae Me
a Pint o' Wine.

Gae bring tae me a pint o' wine,
And fill it in a silver tassie,
That I may drink, before I go,
A service to my bonnie lassie.
The boat rocks at the pier o' Leith,
Fu' loud the winds blaws frae the ferry,
The ship rides by the Berwick Law,
And I maun leave my bonnie Mary.

The trumpets sound, the banner fly,
The glittering spears are ranked ready;
The shouts o' war are heard afar,
The battle closes deep and bloody !
It's no' the roar o' sea or shore
Wad mak' me langer wish to tarry,
Nor shouts o' war that's heard afar,
It's leaving thee, my bonnie Mary.THE BEGGAR MAN

THE BAND O' SHEARERS
The Bonnie Lassie's Plaidie

THE BEGGAR MAN.

There was an  old man cam'  o'er the lea,
Wi' mony a fine story unto me,
He was seeking out for charity ;
Will you lodge a beggar man, O?

The night being dark and somewhat wat ,
It's down by the fireside the auld man sat,
And cast the meal pock aff his back,
And aye he ranted and sang, O.

If I was as blythe as blythe could be,
As the day that I left my  ain countrie,
Blythe and merry would I be,
And I would not think it lang, O.

If I was as black as I am white,
As the snaw that lies on yonder dyke,
I would dress myself as beggar like
And awa' wi' you I'd gang, O.

O lassie, dear lassie, you are too young,
And you have na the cant o' the begging tongue,
O, you have na the cant o' the begging tongue,
And wi' me you canna gang,  O.

I'll bend my back and bow my knee,
I'll put a black patch on my e'e,
And for a beggar they'll tak' me,
And awa' wi' you I'll gang, O.

So syne the two made up the plot,
To rise twa hours before the old folk—
Sae gently as they slipt the lock,
And through the fields they ran, O.

Early next morning the auld folks arose,
They missed the auld beggar and his clothes,
So they missed the auld beggar and his clothes,
Saying there's nane o 'oor gude gear gane, O.

She ordered, the old man to wauken the bairn,
The milk for tae kirn, and the claes for tae airn,
The milk for tae kirn, and the claes for tae airn,
And tell her to come speedily ben, O.

He went tae the room where the dochter lay,
The sheets were cauld and she was away,
O   dear, O dear, the auld man did say,
She's awa' wi' the beggar man, O.

Some rode on horseback and some rode on foot,
For the old woman she was not fit,
She crippled about frae stern to hip,
Saying I'll ne'er lodge a beggar man again, O.

When three lang years were past and gane,
Cam' back the same beggar man again,
Saying, auld wife, since your courtship's gane,
Would you lodge a beggar man, O.

A beggar, a beggar, I'll ne'er lodge again,
I hadna a dochter but ane o' my ain,
And awa' wi 'a beggar man she has gane,
And I canna tell when or where, O.



O yonder she's coming o'er the lea,
Wi' mony a fine story unto thee,
O she's gotten a baby on her knee,
And anither comin' hame,O.

 

Yonder she's coming o'er yon bower,
Wi' silks and satins, and fine flowers,
She held up her hand, and she blessed the day
That she followed the beggar man, O.

The Bonnie Lassie's Plaidie.

A butcher lad there lived in Crieff,
A bonnie lassie came for to buy some beef,
He took her in his arms and down she did fa',
And the wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy  awa'.

Her plaidy  awa', her plaidy  awa',
The wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy awa',
He took her in his arms and down she did fa',
The wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy awa'.

The plaidy was lost and could not be found,
The deil's in the plaid, its awa' wi' the wind,
But what shall I say to the old folks ava',
I daurna say the wind blew the plaidy awa'.
It was not long after the plaidy was lost,
Till the bonnie lassie grew thick in the waist,
And Rabbie was blamed for the hale o' it a',
And the wind blawing the bonnie lassie's plaidy  awa.
Then Rabbie was summoned to answer the session,
They all cried out you maun make a confession,
But Robbie ne'er answered them nae word ava,
But the wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy awa'.
The auld wife came in poor Rabbie tae accuse,
The ministers and elders began tae abuse,
Poor  Rabbie, for trying tae make one in twa,
But Rabbie said the wind blew the plaidy awa'.
The lassie was sent for tae come there hersel',
She looks in his face and says, ye ken how I feel,
And ye were the cause o't ye darna say na,
It was then the wind blew the plaidy awa'.
Rab looked in her face and gied a bit smile,
He says, my bonnie lassie I winna beguile,
The minister is here, he'll make ane o' us twa,
That will pay the plaidy the wind blew awa'.
The whisky was sent for to make things right,
The minister and elder they sat all night,
And sang before the cock began to craw,
The wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy awa'.
Now Rab and his lassie are hand in hand,
They live as contented as any in the land,
And when he gets fou' he minds o 'the fa',
And he sings the wind blew the bonnie lassie's plaidy awa'.

The Band   o'Shearers.

Autumn comes with heather bells,
And bonnie o'er thon mountain dells,
With yellow corn ripe, Lothian's vales
Were ready for the shearing.

CHORUS—

Oh, bonnie lassie will ye gang,
And shear with me the hale day lang?
Love will cheer us as we gang
To join yon band of shearers.

And if the thistles be too strong.
That they do hurt your lily-white hand,
With my keen blade I'll whang them down,
When we are at the shearing.

Oh,  rise, my love, the morning's fair,
No more thon rainy clouds we'll fear,
Hand in hand come let us steer
Away unto the shearing.

And if the neighbours us envy,
And say there's love between you and I,
So carelessly we'll pass them by
When we are at the shearing.

And when the shearing is a' dune,
Then we'll hae a rantin churn.
And some in corners makin' little din,
We'll forget a' the toils o' the shearing.

Copies can always be had at the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.THE MOON
is out to-night Love
OR,
SWEET KITTY
OF THE
GLEN!

THE  moon is out to-night love,
Floating thro' the sky,
Little stars are laughing,
As she passes by ;
All the little songsters
Sing a merry  tune,
Happy as they can be,
Singing to the moon,
Clouds with silver lining,
Waiting in the sky,
Waiting for to  pass them,
Kitty, so am I,
For I've come to meet you,
With a happy smile,
To tell you how I  love  you,
Sitting on the stile,
	Chorus.
The moon is out to-night, love,
Meet me with a smile,
I've something  sweet  to tell you,
Sitting on the stile,
Kiss me when you meet me,
Kitty of the glen ;
And when I go to leave you,
I'll give it back again.
The moon is out to night love,
All the roses blush,
When the gentle night winds
Tell the birds to hush ;
For I  want  to listen,
For a merry voice,
Whose  ev'ry  note is music,
And  makes  my heart rejoice.
Kitty  I  am watching,
Watcling now to  see,
Some one like a fairy,
Coming towards me ;
Ah ! the little angel,
Coming once again,
I've a kiss of true love
For Kitty of the glen.

MOTHER

TAKE ME

HOME AGAIN

Mother all alone to night,
I have sat and thought of thee,
Thinking I could hear your voice,
Gentle as it used to be;
When I think of those bright days,
The bitter tears will fall like rain
My heart then calls for home & thee
Mother take me home again.

Chorus.

There is no place on earth like home,
There my heart will e'er remain,
Away from thee no more I'll roam,
Mother take me home again.

Can I think when gathered round,
That bright hearth at prayer,
How you rocked me  in your arms,
And  soothed  away my childish cares
Dear mother I am still thy child,
Thy image on my heart remains,
I  long to see your loving face-
Mother take me home again.

Years have passed dear mother how
Since from home I strayed away,
In fancy I can hear thy voice
Bidding me with you to stay :
But I trusted one who vowed
His love for me would e'er remain
But by him I was deceived-
Mother take me home again.

Kitty of the GIen
CONTINUED

Oh ! come and sit beside me,
For Kitty I love the;
And let me hear thy sweet voice
Resound  the same to me,
For time it pass's swiftly,
And just one little turn,
I may be call'd away love
And never may return ;
But thy image will for-ever,
Before my eyes be seen,
Like the moon, and stars, above
With their silvery stream;
Now thou art beside me---
Whispering once again,
In thy heart there's true love
Sweet Kitty of the glen.THE   YOUNG   LAIRD and EDINBURGH  KATY.

Now wat ye wha I met the Streen,
coming down the Street my Jo?
My Mistress in her Tartan Skreen,
fow Bonny braw, and sweet my Jo:
My Dear, quoth I thanks to the Night,
that never wish't a Lover ill,
Since ye're out of your Mother's Sight,
let's take a wake up to the Hill.

O Katy, wilt thou gang with me,
and leave the dinsome Town a while,
The Blossoms spruting frae the Tree,
and a the Summers gawn to smile,
The Mavis, Nightingale, and Lark,
the bleating Lamb and whisling Hynd,
And ilk Dale, Green Shaw, and Park,
will nourish Health glad your Mind.

Soon as the clear good Man of Day,
bends his Morning Draught of Dew,
We'll gae to some Burn side, and play,
and gather Flowers to busk your brow:
We'll pow the Deazies on the Green,
the lucken Gowans from the Bog,
Between Hands now & than we'll lean,
and sport upon the Velvet Fog.

There's up into a pleasant Glen,
a wie Pice frae my Father's Tower,
A cany sost and slowry Den,
which airling Birks has form'd a Bower;
When e're the Sun grows hot and warm,
we'll to the cauler Shade remove,
There will I lock thee in my Arm,
and love and kiss, and kiss & love.

Katy's   Answer.

My Mother's ay glouring o'er me,
Tho' she did the same before me,
I cannot get leave
to look to my Love,
Or else she'll be like to devour me,
Right fain woo'd I take ye'r offer,
Swet Sir, but I'll Tine my Tocher
Then Sandy ye'll fret,
and wyt your poor Kate,
When e'er ye seek in ye'r toom Goffer,
For tho' my Father has plenty,
Of Silver and Plenishing dainty;
Yet he's unco swear
to twin wi his Gear,
And sae we had need to be Tenty:
Tutor my Parents wi Caution
Be wylie in ilk a Motion,
Brag well o' ye'er Land,
and there's my leal Hand,
Win them. I'll be at your Devotion.

F   I   N   I   S.



AN Excellent New BALLAD INTITULED,
BESSY BELL AND MARY GRAY.

Bessy Bell and Marry Gray,
they are two bonny Lasses.    
They bigg'd a Bower on yon Burn-brae,
and theek'd it o'er wi Rashes,
Fair Bessy Bell, I loo'd the Streen,
I thought I ne'r cou'd alter;
But Mary Gray's twa pauky Eyn,
they gar my Fancy falter.

Now Bessy's Hair's like a Lint Tap,
She Smiles like a May Morning,
When Phebus starts frae Thetis Lap,
the Hill wi Rays adorning; 
White is her Neck, soft is her Hand,
her Wast and Feet's fow genty,   
With ilka Grace she can command,
her Lips O wow! they're dainty!

And Mary's Locks are like the Craw,
her Eys like Diamonds glances,
She's ay so clean, red up and braw,
she kills when e'er she dances.
Blyth as a Kid with Wit at Will
she blooming Tight and tall is;
And guids her Airs sae gracefow still,
O Jove! She's like thy  Pallas.

Dear Bessy Bell and Mary Gray,
ye unco' fair oppress us:
Our Fancies gaes between you twae,
ye are sick bonny Lasses:
Wae's me! for baith I canna get,
to ane by Law we're stented;
Then I'll draw Cuts, and take my Fate
and be with an contented.

F I N I S.A NEW 
SONG.

Sin' my uncle's dead I've lads anew,
Wha ne'er cam' here before to woo ;
But to the laddie I'll prove true,
that lo'ed me first o'ony O.

I've lads anew sin' I got gear,
Wha scarce before my price would spier,
But nane to me is ha'f so dear,
as my true lover Johnny O.

Weel do I mind on auld lang syne,
when they did laugh at me and mine ;
But I'll pay them back in their ain coin,
and show them I lo'e Johnny O.

I'll ne'er forget my youthfu' days,
Where aftentimes I've gather'd slaes,
And row'd upon yon Craikgen braes
Wi' the pride o'Caledonia.

The laird cam o'er and tell'd my dad,
that surely I was turnin' mad ;
He tell'd my mam I lo'ed a lad,
that was neither rich nor bonny O.

The Laird he's but a senseless cock ;
Altho' my laddie has nae stock
He is the flower o' a' the flock,
and the pride o' Caledonia.

When I wrought to the laird for fee,
He would neither look nor speak to me ;
But now at breakfast, dine and tea,
he would fain mak' me his croney O.

But as sure as gowd cures the heart ake,
'Tis only for my siller's sake
/ill/  the mair o' me that he does make,
the mair I lo'e my Johnny O.

But now the weddin' day is set,
when I'll be married to my pet ;
How pleasantly I'll pay the debt,
I'm awn sae long to Johnny O.

Now fiddlers a' cast aff your coats,
And gi'es a reel upon the spot ;
Play Jockie's made a weddin' o't
I've pledg'd my cockermony O.

Now laddies ha'd your lassies till't
and lasses a' your coaties kilt ;
Come let us ha'e some canty lilt,
Sin' I ha'e got my Johnny O.

I've got my heart's desire at last,
Tho' many a frown's between us past ;
But sin' we're tied baith firm and fast,
may peace crown Caledonia.BONNY LIZIE BALIE.
A New SONG very much in Request,

IT fell about the Lambmass Tide      
When the Leaves were fresh & green,
Lizie Bailie is to Gartartain                  
to see her Sifter Jean.
She had not been in Gartartain,           
even but a little while,
Till Luck and Fortune happen'd her, 
and she went to the Isle,

And when she went into the Isle.         
She met with Duncan Grahame,
So bravely as he courted her,              
and he convey'd her hame:
My bonny Lizie Bailie                        
I'll row thee in my Pladie,
If thou will go along with me              
and be my Highland Lady.

If I would go along with thee              
I think I were nor Wise,
For I cannot milk Cow nor Ewe,        
nor yet can I speak Erse.
Hold thy Tongue bonny Lizie Bailiet
and hold thy Tongue, said he.
For any thing that thou does lack
My Dear I'll learn thee.

She would not have a Low-land Laird
he wears the high heal'd Shoes, 
she will Marry Duncan Grahame
for Duncan wears his Trews;
She would not have a Gentleman.
a Farmer in Kilsyth
But she would have the Highland-man,
he lives into Monteith:

She would not have the Low-land man,
nor yet the English Laddie,
But she would have the Highland man,
to row her in his Pladie.
He took her by the milk-white han
and he convoy'd her hame,
And still she thought both Night and Day
on bonny Duncan Grahame 
     
O bonny Duncan Grahame
why should ye me miscarry
For if you have a love for me
we'll meet at Castle carry
As I came in by Dennie Bridge,
and by the Holland-Bush,
My Mother took from me my Cloaths
my Rings ay and my Purse,

Hold your Tongue my Mother Dear,
for that I do not care;
For I will go with Duncan Grahame
tho' I should ne'r get mair:
For first when I met Duncan Grahame
I met with meikle Joy,
And many Pretty High-land Men
was there at my Convoy

And he is gone through the Muir
and she is through Glen,
O bonny Lizie Bailie
when will we meet again.
Shame light on these Loger-heads
that lives in Castle carry
That let away the bonny Lass
the Highland Man to Marry,

O bonny Lizie stay at home,
thy Mother cannot want thee,
For any thing that thou does lack
my Dear I'll cause get thee,
I would not give my Duncan Grahame
for all my Father's Land.
Altho he had three Lairdships more
and all at my Command.

Now She's cast off her silken Gowns
that she wear'd in the Lowland.
And she's up to the Highland Hills
to wear Gowns of Tartain.
And she's cast off her high heel'd shoes
was made of the gilded Leather,
And she's up to Gillecrankie
to go among the Heather.

And she's cast off her high-heel'd Shoes
and put on a pair of laigh ones,
and she's away with Duncan Grahame
to go among the Brachans,
O my bonny Lizie Bailie
thy Mother cannot want thee
And if thou go with Duncan Grahame
thou'll be a Gillecrankie.

Hold your Tongue my Mother dear,
and folly let thee be,
Should not I fancie Duncan Grahame
when Duncan fancies me:
Hold your Tongue my Father dear
and folly let thee be,
for I will go with Duncan Grahame
before all the Man I see;

Who is it that's done this Turn?
who has done this Deed?
A Minister it's Father she says,
lives at the Rugh-burn-bridge.
A Minister Daughter he says,
A Minister for Mister.
O hold your Tongue my Father dear
he Married first my Sister.

O fair ye well my Daughter dear,
dearly as I lov'd thee, 
Since thou wilt go to Duncan Grahame
my bonny Lizie Bailie;
O fare you well my Father dear,
also my Sister Betty,
O fare you well my Mother dear
I leave you all compleatly.

FINIS.Afloat on  the   Ocean.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

This very popular song can only be had in the Poet's Box

Air-Original.

Afloat on the ocean, my days gaily fly;
No monarch on earth is more happy that I;
Like a bright, brilliant star my trim bark seems to me,
As sparkling in glory, she skims o'er the sea.
The wave is my kingdom, all bend to my will,
And fate seems ambitious my hopes to fulfil.
Tra la la la, &c.

The sea was my birth-place, the morn was all bright,   
When from a proud galley I first saw the light:
The land I first trod was the home of the vine,
Hence, born on the sea, I doat on good wine;
While I sail o'er the one, if the other be there,
A fig for Dame Fortune, I'll laugh away care.
Tra la la la, &c.

The Poet is happy to state, that he has added the following
favourite songs to his already vast Collection, viz. :-

A New Song
The Land of the West
The Orange Defeat
The Jolly Rover
Jeannotte's ans. to Jeannette
The Emigrant's Farewell to Ireland
Och Hey, Johnnie, Lad
Kirsty's Wedding
One Night of our Life's 
The Perthshire Weaver
The Glasgow Regatta
Parody on the Land of the West
A Railway Hymn
Springfield Pleasure Excursion
Adkins Millennium
The king of the Killie Drapers
Answer to Kate and Maggie's Wooing
The Greenock Main Street Lassies
For a' That, and a' That
The Discussion
General Monroe
The Raking Paudheen Rhu
Pilot 'tis a Fearful Night
Sweet Annie o' the Winding Dee
Campsie Fells
The Wondeful Duck
Pat Fagan
Mary of Argyle
Eat, Ye Paupers Eat
The Chinaman with the Monkey Nose
My Hieland Hame
Woman the Joy and Pride of the Land
The Magic Snout
Caudran Side
Gutta Percha
Irish Girl
The Chap that is always on the Beer
The Duntocher Roaring Publican
The Wee Toom House
Cullen's A B C
Tother Side of Jordan
The Gallant Shoemakers of Glasgow                        
Gartmore Braes
The Sights of Glasgow
Oh, Am not Myself at all
The Old Man Lame and Blind
Please, Sir, Just Call Back again
Wait for the Waggon
Kitty Tyrell
Comet Star
It Doesn't Matter
Camlachie Burn
The Little Fat Grey Man
Lovely Mourin Shore
Girvan Fair
My Little Mary Ann
Pretty Rosaline
Forty Years Ago
The Countryman's Visit
Nelly Bly
Very Polite of Her
Hookey Walker
Phaudrig M'Luskey
Tamas Henpeck and the Kirn
Caroline of Edinburgh Town
The Standard Bearer
Come let us be happy together
Dublin Bay
The True Orange Boys
Ane an' be Dune Wi't
New Song Committee
Bold James Sherdan

Saturday Morning, September 19, 1857.GILDEROY

MY Love he was as brave a Man
as ever Scotland bred.
Descended from a Highland Clan,
a Kater to his Trade:

No woman then or woman, or kind

had ever greater Joy,
Than we two when we lodg'd alone,

I and my Gilderoy.
2 First when I and my Love met,

with Joy he did me crown,
He gave me a new Petticoat,

and then a Tartan Gown:

 No woman then, &c.  
3 Gilderoy was a bonny Boy
when he went to the Glen,

He had silk Stockens, on his Legs,

and Roses in his Shoon:
No Woman then, & c.

4  When Gilderoy went to the Wood

    he oft-times catch'd the Fat,
Into the Desert as he went,

scarce ten durst beldecar,
But if he were as stout as Wallace wight,

and tall as Dalmahoy,
He'd never miss  to get a Clout

from my Love Gilderoy.
5  When Gilderoy and I was young,

we was brought up together,
And we were scarce seven Years old,

when the one did love the other;
Our Fathers and our Mothers both,

they thought of us great joy,
And long'd to see the Wedding-day

     'twixt me and Gilderoy.

6 Till it fell once upon a time
they catch'd him like a Thief,

And ty'd his Hands behind his Back,

which was to me great grief ;
Three Gallons large of Iscobee,

they drank to my Love's Foy,
And in to Edinburgh  they have ta'en

my gallant Gilderoy.

7  Pox upon your English Laws,
that hangs a Man for Gear,

Either for catching Cow or Ewe,

or stealing Horse or Mare ;
Had not their Laws been so strict,

I'd never lost my Joy;
But now he's gone whom I love best,
I mean my Gilderoy.

8  And now he is in Edinburgh Town,
'twas long e're I came there,

They hanged him upon a Pin,

and he wagged in the Air:
His Relicks they were more esteem' d,

than Scanderbeg at Troy;
 I never love to see the FaceJACKIE TAR.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Read now, and rejoice, for the Poet here lays before you rol-
licking and leal hearted " Jackie Tar," All can now be supplied
with copies of this fine song, by applying to the Poet, at the Poets
Box, 6 St. Andrew's  Lane, Glasgow and, while there, the Poet,
will show you his extensive collection unequalled for extent and
variety.   Remember the Address,  6 St. Andrew's Lane, Glasgow.

Air—I'd rather have a guinea than a one pound note,

When Jack had pulled the oar, and the boat was gone,
Aud the lassie on the shore with her head hanging down,  
The tears stood in her eyes, and bosom heaving sighs,
Farewell, my dear, she dries, with your trousers on.

Farewell, said he, I go to sea, and you must stay behind,
But do not grieve, for while I live I ever will be kind,
And when I come to land you will meet me on the strand,
And welcome Jackie Tar With his trousers on.

Now peace is proclaimed, and the wars are all o'er, 
The fleets they are moored, and  the sailors come ashore,
Now you may see her stand with a glass into her hand,
To welcome jack to land with his trousers on.

While up on high, she catched his, with all her lovely charms,
Her face he knew, and straight he flew and caught her in
his arms;
Her hand he kindly pressed, as he held her round the waist
And he kissed the bonnie lassie with his trousers on.

O  Jack where have you been since you went from me,
And want have you seen upon the raging sea?
I  mourned for your sake, while my heart was like to break,
For I thought l'd never see my Jack with his trousers on.

And while you staid, I  sighed and prayed to Neptune and
to Mars,
That they would prove kind, and send you home save from
the wars, 
And now to my request they have been pleased to list,
And sent you to my breast with your trousers on.

I have sailed the seas for you to the Torrid Zone,
From the confines of Peru to Van Dieman's Land,
From the Bay of Baltimore to the coast of Lobradore,
But now I'm safe on shore with my trousers on.

I have beat the storms, in many torms, upon the raging main.
I have fought the foes, with deadly blows, and many a hero
slain;
I have heard the cannons roar, I have rolled in blood and gore
But now I'm safe on shore, with my trousers on.

I have been aloft when the winds have blown,
And I have been alost when the bombs were thrown,
But like a sailor bold, I am now come from the hole,
With my pockets full of gold, and my trousers on.

And now no more, from shore to shore, I'll plough the rag-
ing seas,
But free from strife, as a man and wife, we'll live in peace 
and ease.
To the church this couple hied, and the priest the knot has
tied,
And the sailor kissed his bride with his trousers on,

The Poet's Blacking is universally acknowledged
to be the best now sold in the world.  It can only
be had in the Poet's Box, 6 St Andrew's Lane, off
Gallowgate, Glasgow.               

Junuary 6, 1855.THE QUEEN  OF OTAHEITE,

At  Otaheite,   I've  heard  say,   a  huge  fat
	Queen walked out;
Her head was like a mourning coach,   it was
	so black and large, O.
Her eyes were like two cocoa nuts,   and  a
	brass ring through her snout.
And her name was Pulka,    Wulka,   Poki,
	Koki, Coalee, Barge, O.
	She waddled in the woods one day,
	And Pulka, poor thing, lost her way;
	The sun was in his burning ray,
	So she squatted under a high tree;
	Then with fatigue began to pant,	
	And fell asleep upon a plant;	
	Just like a female elephant
	Was the Queen of otaheitc.
Tang a rang, a ting a ring ko, pickee nickee
	whoo,
Tahera hira hoora, punkee wunkee chingko.

As Pulka  Wulka lay asleep,   two monkeys
	from a tree
Came down and rolled her off the bank, into
	a river slap, O.
She floated   down the  stream  for miles,   I
	think 'twas thirty three,
Then like  Dame Amphitrite,   she sank to
	take a watery nap, O
	Oh then the waters bubbled high,
	And one Chief Crocomquick rowed by
	In his canoe, and heard the cry,
	So ho stopped just that he might see
	What it was moving in the deep,
	He then dived down to have a peep,
	And for some hours he went to sleep
	With the Queen of Otaheite.

Now just before the sun went down,  chief
	Crocumquick arose,
With Pulka on his back, and swam with her
	ashore, O.
Then carried her to his own hut,   while she
	was in a dose,
And soon brought her to life again by rolling
	her on the floor,  O.
	Then on his mat he took his seat,
	And kissed her o'er from head to feet,
	On human heads he made her eat;
	Says she,' Me stop with you to-nighte
	They gorged away on flesh and figs,
	And played a few rummy rigs,
	Then went to sleep and snored like pigs
	Oh, monstrous Queen of otaheite.
They lived   together for some time,  till he
	smelt out his doom,
That if they caught him with the Queen, he'd
	get a nasty knock, O.
So he one day made up his mind to send her
	to her home;
For she had nearly stormed his hut of all his
	eatable stock, O.
	Then he popped her into his canoe,
	And rowed her off to King Quim Roo,
	But he for blood was in the cue,
	He had the blue devils mighty ;
	The Queen's ribs he began to punch,
	And doubled Crocom in a bunch,
	And carved him for his own lunch ;
	What a treat at otaheite !

			MacGibbon, Printer.SIR JAMES THE ROSS.

Of all the Scottish northern chiefs,
Of high and warlike same.
The bravest was .Sir James Ross.
A knight of meikle fame.

His growth was like the tufted fir
Which crowns yon mountain s brow.
And, waving o'er his shoulders broad.
His locks of yellow flew.

The chieftain of the brave clan Ross,
A firm undaunted band,
Five hundred warriors drew their swords
Beneath bis high command.

Thrice he had stood the bloody fight
Against the English keen.
Ere two-and-twenty opening springs
His blooming youth bad seen.

The fair Matilda dear he loved,
A maid of beauty rare ;
Even Margaret or, our  Scottish throne
Was never half so fair.

Lang he had woo'd, lang she refused.
With seeming scorn and pride ;
Yet alt her eyes confess-'d the tale
Her faithless tongue deny'd.

At length, pleased with his well-tired faith,
She allow d his tender claim ;
She vow'd to him her virgin heart.
And own'd a mntual flame.

Her father,  Buchan's cruel lord,
Her passion di-approved,
And bade her wed Sir John the Grahame,
And leave the youth she loved.

At night they met, as they were went,          
Within a shadey wood,                              
Where. on a bank, beside a burn,                 
A blooming saugh tree stood.                    

Conceal'd amaug the underwood
The crafty Donald lay,
The brother of sir John the Grahame,
To hear what they might say.

When thus the maid began. " My sire
Your passion disapproves.
And bids me wed Sir John the Grahame;
So here must end our loves.

My father's will must be obey'd.
Nought boots me to withstand :
Some fairer maid, in beauty's bloom,
Must bless you with her hand.

Matilda soon shall be forgot.
And from thy mind effaced :
But may that happiness be thine,
Which I can never taste."

" What do I hear? Is this thy vow ?''
Sir James the Ross replied ;
And will Matilda wed the Grahame ?
Though sworn to be my bride.

His sword shall sooner pierce my heart,
Than 'reave me of these charms !"
Then clasp'd her to his beating breast,
Fast lock'd her in his arms.

" I spake to try thy love !" said she,
I'll ne'er wed man but thee:
The grave shall be my bridal bed,
Ere Grahame my husband be.

Take then, dear youth, this faithful kiss,
In witness of my troth ;
And every plague become my lot,
That day I break my oath.

They parted thus—the sun was set —
Up hastily Donald flies.
"And, • Turn'thee. turn thee, beardless  youth!"
He loud insulting cries.

Soon turn'd about the fearless chief,
And soon his sword he drew :
For Donald's blade, before his breast.
Had pierced his tartans through.

" This for my brother's slighted love!
His wrongs sit on my arm."
Three paces back the youth retired.
To save himself from harm.

Returning swift. his hand he rear'd
From Donald's head above.
And through his brains and crashing bones
His sharp-edged weapon drove.

He stagger'd — reel'd—then tumbled down
A lump of breatbless clay ;
" So fall my foes !" quoth valiant Ross,
And stately rode away.

Through the green wood he quickly hied
Unto Lord Buchan's hall.
And at Matilda's widow stood,
And thus began to call :—

" Art thon asleep.  Matilda dear ?
Awake !  my love, awake !
Thy luckless lover calls on thee,
A long farwell to take.

For I have slain fierce Donald Grahame—
His blood is on my sword—
And far far distant are my men,
For to protect their lord.

To Skye I'il now direct my way,
Where my two brothers bile.
And raise the valiant of the Isle
To combat on my side."

" O do not so !" the maid replied,
" With me till morning stay ;
For dark and dreary is the road,
And dangerous is the way.

All night I'll watch you in the park—
My faithful page I'll send.
To run and raise the Ross's clan,
Their master to defend.

Beneath a bush he laid him down.
And row'd him in his plaid ;
While, trembling for,her lover's sate.
At distance stood the maid.

Swift ran the page o'er hill and dale.
Till, in a lowly glen,
He met the furious Sir John Grahame.
With twenty of his.men.

" Where goest thou, little page ?" said he,
" So late who did thee send?"
" I go to raise the Ross's clan.
Their master to detend ;

For he has slain fierce Donald Grahame—
His blood is on his sword —
And far far distant are his men.
For to protect their lord."

" And has he slain my brother dear?"
The furious Grahame replies ;
Dishonour blast my name! but he
By me ere morning die.

Tell me where is Sir James the Ross—
I will thee well reward "
" He sleeps into Lord Buchan's park—
Matilda is h s guard."

They prick'd their steeds in furious mood,
And scour'd along the lea.
And reach'd unto Lord Buchan'n park
By dawning of the day.

Matilda stood without the gate.
To whom thus Grabame did say—
" Saw ye Sir James the Ross last night?
Or did he pass this way ?"

Last day at noon," Matilda said,
Sir James the Ross pass'd by ;
He urged his steed in furious mood,
And onward fast did hie :

By this time he's at Edinburgh.
If man and horse hold good."
" Your page then lied, who said he was
Now sleeping in your wood.''

She wrung her hands, she tore her hair—
'Brave  Ross thou art betray'd !
And ruin'd by those means," she cried,
" From whence I hoped thine aid."

By this the valiant knight awoke.
The virgin's shrieks he heard.
And up he rose and drew his sword,
Ere the fierce band appear'd.

" Your sword last night my brother slow.
His blood yet dims its shine :
But before the rising of the sun
Your blood shall reck on mine."

" You word it well." the chief replies.
" But deeds approve the man ;
Set bye your men—and. hand to hand,
We'll try whit valour can.

Oft bonsting hides a coward's heart;
My trusty sword you fear,
Which shone in front at Floddeu-Field,
While yours kept in the rear."

Then forward strode in dauntless mood,
And dared him to the fight:
The Grahame gave back— he fear'd his arm,
For well he knew its might.

Four of his man—the bravest four—
Sank down beneath his sword ;
Yet still he scorn  this base revenge,
And sought their haughty lord-

Behind him basely came the Grahame,
And wounded him in the side;
Out spouting came the purple tide.
And all his garments dyed.

Yet of his sword ne'er quit the grip,
Nor dropt he to the ground,
Till through his hateful enemy's heart
He pierced a mortal wound.

Grahame. like a tree by wind o'erthrown.
Fell lifeless on the clay ;
While down beside him sank the Ross,
Who faint and dving lay.

The sad ! Matilda saw him fall.
Oh. spare bis life !" she cried ;
Lord Buchan's daughter craven his life ;
Let, her not be denied."

Her well-known voice the hero heard,
And raised his death-closed eyes;
Then fix'd them on the weeping maid,
And weakly thus replies:—

 " In vain Matilda begs a life
By death's arrest denied :
My race is race is run:—Adieu !" he cried,
Then closed his eyes and died.

The sword yet warm from his left side
With frantic hand she drew ;
I come ! Sir James the Ross !" she cried,
" I come to follow you."

She lean'd the hilt upon the ground,
And bared her snowy breast,
Then fell upon her lover's face.
And sank to endless rest.

SANDERSON, Printer, Edinburgh.
A varied assortment for the supply for
Hawkers and Travellers.THE ITALIN GIRL.

OR THE BRIGAND'S DAGHTER

COPIES OF THIS CAN ALWAYS BE HAD AT THE POET'S BOX,

182 OVERGATE, Dundee.

There's a lovely little madin that I ever shall adore,
In Italy, that bright and sunny land,
My life would be a plesure and I would ask for not-
hing more.
If she would only share her heart and hand,
Though her father he's a Brigand on the the loney
mountain path,
And with him on the mountain she does dwell,
There is not a couting beauty in all Europe can
surpass,
This dear Italian girl I love so well,

CHORUS.

Though her father he's a Brigand on the mountain.
She's as gentle as the daughters of an Earl.
Although she set me free my heart shall ever be,
A captive to this dear Italian girl,

Whilst roming the lovely mountain 'nath the clear
and sunny skics;
A land of starligt Brigand's bold and strong,
They captured me all helplessly with a bandage oe'r
my eyes,
And cative I quickly bore along,
£500. aransom they demanded me to pay,
But this I was not rich enough to give,
Had it not been for the pleading of this little mou-
ntain maid.
They would not have hermitted to live,

They put me in a dungeon where I thought that  I
should die,
And whilst the Brigand chief and all his band,
Where plundring poor travellers this weary girl came
nigh,
And by my side with beaming eyes did stand,
She burst my bands asunder bade me rise and puickly
fly,
And for her fathers sake she gave me gold.
While the tears of love and pity were glistring in
her eyes,
I pressed her for to fly with me to be my darling
bride.

For her love for me was very planly shown,
But still she was duty bound to her outlawed fathers
side,
And then to England I returned alone.
But I cannot stay for ever on this bright and happy
iles,
To Italy I am goning to return,
To see if I can see her face if its only for a  while
This dear Italian girl I love so well.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required. along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post, Immediat
despatch may be relied upon!THE SEA !

The sea !   the sea !   the open sea !
The blue, the fresh, the ever free !
Without a mark, without a bound,
It runneth the earth's wide regions round.
It plays with the clouds, it mocks the sky,
Or like a cradled creature lies.
I'm on the sea !   I'm on the sea'.
I am where I would ever be ;
With the blue above, and the sea below,
And silence prevails whereso'er I go.
If a storm should come & awake the deep,
What matter, I shall ride and sleep.
What matter, &c.

I love—oh, how I love to ride,
On the fierce, foaming, bunsting tide !
When every mad wave drowns the moon,
Or whistles aloft the tempest tune !
And tells how goeth the world below,
And why the south-west blast doth blow.
I never was on the dull tame shore,
But I lov'd the great sea more and more ;
And backward flew to her billowy breast,
Like a bird that seeke h its mother's nest;
And a mother she was, and is to me,
For I was born on the open sea.
For I was born, &c.

The waves were white, and red the morn,
In the noisy hour when I was born;
And the whale it whistled, the porpoise

roll'd,

The Dolphins bared their backs of gold;
And never was heard such an outcry wild,
As welcom'd to life the ocean child.
I have liv'd since then in calm and strife,
Full fifty summers a rover's life,
With wealth to spend, & a power to lend,
But never sought or sigh'd for change ;
And death, whenever be comes to me,
Shall come on the wild unbounded sea.
And death, &c.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Stationer, &c., 9 King
Street, Glasgow.    Upwards of 5,000 different sorts always on
hand; also, a great variety of Song-books, &c.   Shops & Travel-
es supplied on the most moderate Terms

159This Song is Copyright and the exclusive Property of the Author.

WHISTLING SANNIE.


The laverock mounts the airy sky,
And pours his sweetest notes on high,
They charm the wanderer's ear gaun by.
But no sae much as Sannie, O!

CHORUS.

Then hey for Sannie, clever chiel,
Then hoy for Sannie, famed fu' weel;
Tae lassies fondly to him steal,
To hear a sang in tune fu' weel.

The linti's sitting on the thorn,
He sings sae sweet in dawning morn,
He charms the weary and forlorn,
But no sae much as Sannie, O !
Chorus.

The mavis sings sae sweet at e'en,
Just when the sun has sunk serene ;
His sang sae sweetly was yestreen,
But no sae sweet as Sannie, O !
Chorus.

The folk dae croud him roun' and roun',
As he gangs whistling through the town,
To hear anither sang in tune
Frae Sannie, clever chiellie, O!
Chorus.

Then they cry out dae gie's a ca',
And mak' your flute and pipes to blaw,
To charm frae weary troubles a',
When nane can cheer but Sannie, O !
Chorus.

Now Sannie's lik'd by rich an' a',
They cry to him come gie's a ca',
When nought is fit to cheer them a'
Till Sannie gi'es a whistle,O!
Chorus.

O, Sannie will for aye be mist,
When he is gane awa' an' blest,
The lassies aye for him had wisht,
But lang may he yet whistle, O !
Chorus.

To equal Sannie there is nane,
Some try't, but it is a' in vain ;
He's gain'd the name an' wrought the fame—
Three cheers for WHISTLING SANNIE, O!
Chorus,This Song is Copyright and the exclusive Property of the author





  WHISTLING  SANNIE

  


The laverock mounts the airy sky,
And pours his sweetest notes on high,
They charm the wanderer's ear gaun by,
But no sae much as Sannie, O!

CHORUS.

Then hey for Sannie, clever chiel,
Then hoy for Sannie, famed fu' weel;
The lassies fondly to him steal,
To hear a sang in tune fu' weel.



The linti's sitting on the thorn,
He sings sae sweet in dawning morn,
He charms the weary and forlorn,
But no sae much as Sannie, O !
Chorus.

The mavis sings sae sweet at e'en,
Just when the sun has sunk serene ;
His sang sae sweetly was yestreen,
But no sae sweet as Sannie, O !
Chorus.

The folk dae croud him roun' and roun',
As he gangs whistling through the town,
To hear anither sang in tune
Frae Sannie, clever chiellie, O !
Chorus.

Then they cry out dae gie's a ca',
And mak' your flute and pipes to blaw,
To charm frae weary troubles a',
When nane can cheer but Sannie, O !
Chorus.

Now Sannie's lik'd by rich an' a',
They cry to him come gie's a ca',
When nought is fit to cheer them a'
Till Sannie gi'es a whistle, O !
Chorus.

O, Sannie will for aye be mist,
When he is gane awa' an' blest,
The lassies aye for him had wisht,
But lang may he yet whistle, O !
Chorus.

To equal Sannie there is nane,
Some try't, but it is a' in vain ;
He's gain'd the name an'wrought the fame—
Three cheers for WHISTLING SANNIE, O!
Chorus.WHITE

Spuall.


Copies of this song can always be had at  the   Poets
BOX 190    192 Overgate DUNDEE.

PRICE ONE PENNY,

The sea was bright, and the bark rode wall,
The breeze bore the tone of the vasper bell,
'Twas a gallant bark. with a crew as brave,
As ever launch'd on the heaving wave:
She shone in the light of declining day,
Each sail was set, and each heart was gay.

We neared the land wherein beauty smiles,
The sunny  shores of the Grecian isles.
We thought of home, and that welcome dear,
That soon would greet each wanderer's ear;
And in fancy joined the social throng
The festive dance, and the joyous song

A white cloud flies through the azure sky
What means that wild despairing cry!
Farewell the vision d scenes of home,
The cry is' Help!, where no help can come,
For the white squall rides on the surging wave,
And the bark is gulph'd in an ocean grave.

JOBBING PRINTING DONE

HERE.THE

FISHERMAN'S

GIRL.

Down in the Country
A poor girl did wander,
Down in the Country
A poor girl did roam,
She belongs to this nation.
She has lost each dear relation.
She's a poor little Fisherman's girl,
Whose friends are dead and gone.

O who has a kind heart
To give me a shelter,
Or who has a kind heart
To give me a home,
I have no father or mother,
I have a tender brother,
Cried the poor little Fisherman's girl,
Whose friends are dead and gone.

I once had a home
And my friends reared me tender,
I passed with my brother
Each happy night and morn,
But death has made a slaughter,
My father's in the water
Cried the poor little Fisherman's girl,
Whose friends are dead and gone.

O fast falls the snow
I've got no place for shelter,
O fast falls the snow
I must hasten to the thorn.
Where my covering is the bushes,
An'd my bed is the green rushes,
Cried the poor little Fisherman's girl,
Whose friends are dead and gone.

O she happened to stray
By a very noble mansion,
A gentleman who heard her,
His heart for her did burn.
He said my poor young creature
As he viewed each drooping feature,
You are my poor little fisherman's girl
Whose friends are dead and gone.

He took her to the fire
Where he warmed her and fed her,
As the tears began to flow
He fell on her breast forlorn,
Saying live with me for ever
We part again no never,
You are my own dear sister,
Whose friends are dead and gone.

Now she has got a home,
And she lives with her brother,
Now she has got a home,
And the needy ne'er does scorn,
Providence was her protector            
Likewise the kind conductor,
Of the poor little Fisherman's girl,
Whose friends were dead and gone.