WILLIAM BURKE.—A New Sung.

Come all you resurrection men I pray you beware.
You see  what  has   happened  William   Burke,   and  likewise
William Hare.
Hare he kept a lodging house, it  was in the  West Port,
Where all kinds of travellers an to it did resort
He lodged all both great and  small , as she track to your [    ]     
Till at last he began to murder them, to the Doctors for to sell
The first was  Margret Paterson, as I did he r them say,
A young girl in the Cannongate, that drink had led   astray
This William Burke fell in with her, and soon she did agree
With him to go, but little know that her butcher He would be.
The next was poor Daft Jamie, as I did hear them say,
That often  on the streets with bairns used to play.
Ta the Fleshmarket he often did resort,
The Fleshers all being, kind to him, for with him they did good sport.
And the barkers all,  both  great and small, with him she   well
agree,          
Although that he was void of sense, right innocent with be.
But one day as Jamie walked all along [  ] the street,
With these two body snatchers he sh[   ] for to meet,
Then Burke   showed him some   money, and said Jamie cam
away
And like Judas with our Savious this lamb they did slay.
They went into a silent place and got this murder done
The next was an old woman that same to seek her son.
'He was a soldier and in the Castle lay,
And Burke saw her a stranger, and soon did  her betray.
He said, I keep lodgings, and come along with me.
And you shall be well used, and that you soon shall see
He showed a bed and said to her, mistress, you'll  lye here,
Aud you will get soon asleep,before  it be morning clear
Now she has took off all  her clothes, and went into her rest,
But she little knew the serpent that was within their breast.
And now then the gathered, and soon to work they fell
And they murdered this old woman, and  to doctor did  her
sell;
And now they got this over, and thought that all was past,
But down come the police and taken they were at last,    
And now before the bar of Justice they did appear,
But Hare and his wife turned evidence themselves for clear.
Now Burke received his sentence, and is sent back to the Jail
Now he lies there to morn his wretched case,
And Hair should be there if right does take place.
And for these women they should be burnt for such a murder,
Never to be seen again in any town  or country.
Written by John Logan !

The Committee who undertook, at Dr. Knox's request,to  in-
vestigate the rumours against him, have published their Report,
signed by nine gentlemen. The Report says they have seen no
evidence that Dr. knox or his assistants knew that murder had
been committed, and believe they did not: that they are satis-
fied no suspicion was excited in Dr. KnOx's mind that they were
so ; that there were no marks upon the bodies which could lead
to such suspicion ; that no such suspicion wee ever hinted to
him; that, consequently, no attempts were made to disguise
appearances. They consider Dr- Knox culpable in entertaining
she opinion that uninterred bodies could be purchased from re-
latives; and that this opinion led him to give ear to the tales of
Burke ; and that, by the laxity of his system of receiving bo-
dies, he gave a facility to Burke and Hare, in the disposal of
their victims, which other wise would not have existed. This
they consider the only ground of censure against Dr. Knox,
None of the evidence is given.A Full and Particular Account of the Riot which
took place in Edinburgh on Thursday last; also
of the Hoax played off on a Celebrated Doctor.
" POPULAR TUMMULT,....On Thursday, a number
of people, who had assembled about the Calton,
were observed to come up Leith Street and pass
along both the Bridges, southward, bearing an
Effigy of a certain Doctor, who has been rendered
very obnoxious to the public by recent events.
The figure was pretty well decked out in a suit of
good cloths, and the face and head bore a tolerable
resemblance to the person intended to be represent-
ed On the back was a label bearing the words
" Knox, the associate of the infamous Hare." In
passing along the South Bridge a policeman, a re-
solute fellow, attempted singly to stem the torrent
And pull the figure from those carrying it, but fail-
ed receiving some severe blows for his boldness
The crowd, which increased rapidly, proceeded on-
ward to Newington, where the figure was suspend
ed by the neck from a tree, fire being also put to
it, but which soon went out. The figure was then
torn to pieces, amidst the loud huzzas of thousands,
Up to this period no actual violence had been com-
mitted, but the appearance of the crowd was very
threatening, the whole flower-plot and railing in
front of the Doctor's house being literally packed
with people, who were shouting in a wrathful man-
ner—blending the names of the 'West Port murder- '
ers with that of the medical gentleman so often
alluded to, as connected with those horrid transac-
tions. Captain Stewart, the Superintendent of the
Police, and a superior officer of another department
of the establishment, having out-run the main body
of watchmen,-and having got admission to the
house from the rear, made a determined charge
from the front door, upon the crowd, who instant-
ly retreated to the road and commenced throwing
stones, whereby Mr Stewart and the other gentle-
men were considerably injured, but no farther riot-
ing then took place, and no property was destroy-
ed beyond a pane or two of glass broken. This
mob, which may be said to have consisted princi-
pally of boys and young lads, among whom eight
or ten bakers seemed the most active, quietly dis-
persed, but re-assembled in different parts of the
city. A crowd, mostly boys, assembled in Prince's
Street, and, armed with sticks, paraded the High
Street, but did no mischief, having encountered a
body of the police at the Tron Church, by whom
they were dispersed. Another mob collected in the
West Port, came down the Grassmarket and Cow-
gate, and went up the Horse Wynd, breaking a
number of panes of glass in the windows on the
west and south sides of the College. A third crowd
had collected about the Cowgate, where several of
the most active were apprehended. But, notwith-
standing all the efforts of the police, the mob,again
attacked the house of Dr Knox- about seven o'clock,
when a great number of windows were broken,
both in his house and those adjoining. An attempt
was also made on Surgeon Square, but a party of
police, under the direction of Mr Kerr, completely
repelled the attack. Upon the whole, the police
never appeared more vigilant or more successful in
preserving the peace, They apprehended about 20
of the most active, were to be brought before the
Sitting Magistrate."— Edinburgh Evening Conrant.

An ANATOMIST HOAXED-- A well known carter in Leith had
the misfortune to lose, when in the straw, a brood sow the other
day, to the unspeakable grief of a host of young piglings who
Had, perhaps been rather prematurely ushered into this world
of woe;  and in consequence of the large sums which he had
heard were in the habit of being given for bodies, it occurred to
him that he might realize something for behoof of the growing
family by disposing of the corps of their lamented and amiable
mother. Accordingly he had the body scraped and prepared,
and forthwith repaired to Surgeon Square, with the subject care-
fully packed up in a box, and actually sold it to a certain cele-
brated lecturer for L.8, The doctor, however, had only L.5
upon him, which he gave to the body-dealer in the meantime,
and promised to pay him the balance on the morrow. This sum
the wag pocketed, and it is unnecessary to add, that he has  not
visited the Square since,—being satisfied, we believe, that, he 

had received ample remuneration for the body given." Observer, 

                                                                                                         

Price One Penny   BURKING SHOP
DESTROYED.

A particular Account of the Extraordinary Demolition of an Ana-
tomical Theatre, at Aberdeen, on Monday last, the 19th Decem-
ber 1831, which was Burnt and erazed to the ground, in conse-
quence of the sagacity of a Dog.

ON MONDAY, a few little boys, who were playing close
by a back court, observed a dog tearing up some substance
from the loose earth, gave the alarm, and, in a few minutes, 20 or
30 people were on the spot, when two lads finished what the dog
begun, and dug up a portion of the fragments of a human body,
when the crowd raised a shout of horror, and made for the doors
of the theatre. Two lads entered, and finding Mr Moir, the lectur-
er, in the place, assaulted him, turned him out and he escaped.
Part of the crowd, however, followed him to his own house, and in-
to a room, but Mr Moir leaped from a window, and escaped by
George's Street. The crowd, which had now increased to perhaps
a 100, rushed into the place, where they found three dead bodies
lying on boards. Cloaks, instruments, all the paraphernalia of the
place, instantly disappeared, part being destroyed, and part carried
0ff Information having been sent to the town-house, the officers
soon arrived at the place, and ordered the bodies to be taken out,
This was done, and when the mangled corpses were brought out to
the open air, and laid down on the ground, the loud yells of the
crowd, and their cries for revenge, baffile description. " Burn the
house....down with the burking shop!" was new the cry ; and
there being a fire in the place, the inmates tore down the plaster-
lath, and made every attempt to raise a fire, which they had, from
the want of materials, very great difficulty in accomplishing. Shav-
ings, fir, and tar-barrel staves, were, however, quickly obtained, and
great quantities of wood were brought and thrown in after the fire
had fairly taken effect. Cries of " Come out, come out, the house
is falling,"were now raised; and on going  to the back ground we
found that the crowd had commenced undermining the back wall
with large planks, one of which they used as a lever, and the other
as a battering-ram ; and go quickly did they do their work, that
within five minutes after they had commenced to undermine, the
whole of the back wall fell down with a tremendious crash. The
blaze of the fire was now extraordinary, from the quantity of sup-
plementary fuel put on. The crowd, however, did not appear to
rest satisfied until the- place was fazed. Accordingly, they carried
their planks to the street, and set so work with the front wall. At
this time, the Lord Provost and Magistrates, and a great number of
special constables arrived ; and his lordship proceeded with great
firmness through the crowd, whom he addressed several times, and
stated, that if the feelings of the public had been hurt in this case,
every enquiry would be made, and every satisfaction afforded .His
lordship was loudly cheered. In the meantime, a party of the 79th
regiment had been marched out of the barrack, but it was deemed
advisable to bring them no farther than Schoohill, from which they
entered into Gordon's Hospital, where they were stationed until the
end of the drama. About four o'clock a fire engine was brought ;
but it seems as if the crowd would not allow it to work—in fact,
no water could be had. In about an hour the front wall fell, leav-
ing only the two gables and the roof standing, which formed a great
burning arch. The scene which now opened upon the view of those
near the building was awfully sublime. Attacks were now made
upon the gables, and, after, a great deal of exertions, the two walls
and the roof fell together, amid the loud and continued cheers of
not less than 20,000 individuals. The crowd then began to retire,
although large portions of them still kept together ; and one division
having observed a student of medicine, as they were moving away,
they immediately pursued him, hooting and vociferating obnoxious
terms. The gentleman ran, and finding the mob gaining upon him,
he took refuge in a house in Schoolhill, which in a moment was
surrounded, and threatened to be demolished, unless the object of
their vengeance was turned out Crowds poured in from every
quarter, but it being understood that the student had escaped by a
back window, they began to disperse. Fart of them, however, fell
in with another student, whom they chased into the Guestrow; but
it appeared that he had doubled some corner and eluded their pur-
suit. They made a stand, however, before a house in Guestrow,
where bodies had formerly been discovered, and threatened its safe-
ty; but eventually dispersed, and by ten o'clock was perfectly quiet

Menzies, Printer, Edinburgh.—Price One Penny.BURKS

P A P E R S.



Full Copy of the Curious Papers which
were found under a flag stone at the gen-
eral Cleaning of the City,  near  Burke's
house, where you have the names of those
who were  murdered, and  sold  by him.
Togeth r with the prices,   and sums re-
ceived for each subject

There was found on Monday,  a tattered menu-
script, supposed  to have   been written  by the no-
tarious Burke, from its having  been found under
a flag stone, near the   house  of that cold-blooded
murderer, while the men were employed cleaning
out the  rubbish and  filth,  (to prevent Cholera,)
which abounded in such stupendous quantities in
that quarter of the  city.    These papers were  de-
posited in a tin cannister,  which   was nearly worn
into holes   by   rust, although   it   most   have   lain
there   only  a  few  years.    They  bear  on the first
page the date.

7th February, 1817. — Apparently written by
the Schoolmaster. This book belongs to William
Burke son of Neil Burke, labourer, Urny, county
of Troyne.                

Then follows a number of pages, on which are
strokes, and single letters, such as used at school.
Also fragments and scroals mostly obliterated.

And then a Journal, and Actions, as follows:—

Left the Donnegal militia and came to Edin-
burgh, December 1818, to follow the shoemaker
trade.

I.  Sept.1826.--Went to lodge with Hare, Tan-
ner's Close, and assisted with the cuddy.

Christmas 1827.—Sold the body of Donald the
pensioner, in Surgeon Square, for L.7,   10.
Paid William Hare, Tanner's Close, L4,   5.

For myself, L.3, 5.                                   

April 2,—Sold the woman  from Gilmerton for

L9.

Paid William Hare foresaid, L4.  Paid a porter
5 .drank 3. 3d. a  box is. For myself L4, 10s.

May 7—Sold   the   old   woman, who   came to
lodge in Tanner;s Close,  and   the child, for £12.
Paid for drink, porterage, &c. 7s. Paid william

Hare L.5.

For myself L6, 13 .

July 1.—Sold the Englishman for L10. Kept
the whole money, for Hare's conduct to me.

22.- Sold the woman Haldane for L6. Paid
Hare, being due him L5. Paid Donald the por-
ter, being jealous of him L1.

Aug 2-Sold the old  woman, and her grand
daughter for L11.     Paid  Hare L5.    Paid the gro-
cer for a herring barrrel Is. 6d, whisky and Donald

7, 6J.

For myself I.5, 15, 61.
Oct  5.-Sold the  girl Paterson for LI0, which     

was all paid to Harel, be being hard up.     

3I- Sold James wilson, or draft Jamie for L15.

For myself L7, 10s.

There is no account of the women Margery.
M'Dougal ,or Duffie, or, cambell, for whose mur- .
der this attricious and blood thirsty villain suf- 
red the punishment which he so richly deserve-
ed.

FORBES and Co.Printers, 171,Cowgate. 



CONFESSIONS

MADE BY

William Burke,

New under Sentence of Death, in the Calton jail, for the Harrid
Murder of Mrs Campbell, frankly detailing several other atrocious
Murders, in which he was concerned along, with Hare....Extract-
ed from the Caledonian Mercury, 5th January, 1829.

AFTER some conversation of a religious nature he was asked
how   long he  had been engaged in this murderous traffic.
To which he answered, from Christmas 1827 till the murder of the
woman Docherty in October last.    How many persons  have you
murdered,  or been  concerned  in  murdering, during   that   time? 
Were they thirty in all ?   No, not so many ; not so many, I assure
you.    How  many ? He  answered the question ; but  the  answer
was, for a reason satisfactory, not communicated to us, and reserved
for a different quarter.

Had you any accomplices ? None but Hare. We always took
cure, when we were going to commit a murder, that no one else
should be present...that no one else should swear he saw the deed
done. The women might suspect what we were about, but we always
put them out of the way when we were going to do it. They never
saw us commit any of the murders One of the murders was done
in Broggan's house, while he was out, but before he returned the
thing was finished, and the body put into a box. Broggan evidently
suspected something, for he appeared much agitated, and entreated
us ' to sake away that box,' which we accordingly did. But he was
not in any way concerned in it.

You have already told me that you were engaged in those atro-
cities from Christmas 1827 till the end of October 1828; Were you
associated with Mare during all that time ?....Yes We began
with selling to Di ——the body of a woman who had died a na-
tural death in Hare's house, We got ten pounds for it. After this
we began the murders, and all the rest of the bodies we sold to him
we murdeted. In what place were there murders generally com-
mitted ?....They were mostly committed in Hare's house, which was
very convenient for the purpose, as it consisted of a room and a
kitchen. Daft Jamie was murdered there. The story told of this
murder is incorrect, Hare began the struggle with him, and they
fell and rolled together on the ground ; then 1 went to Hare's assist-
ance, and we at length finished him, though with much difficulty.
I committed one murder in the country by myself. It was in last
harvest. All the rest were done in conjunction with Hare.

' By what means were these fearful atrocities perpetrated ?' ' By
suffocation. We made the persons drunk, and then suffocated
them by holding the nostrils and mouth, and getting on the body.
Sometimes I held the mouth and nose, while Hare went upon the
body ; and sometimes Hare held the mouth and nose, while I
placed myself on the body. Hare has perjured himself by what
he said at the trial about the murder of Docherty. He did not sit
by while I did it, as he says. He was on the body assisting me
with all his might, while I held the nostrils and mouth with one
hand, choked her under the throat with the other. We sometimes
used a pillow, but did not in this case. Now, Burke, answer me
this question—Were you tutored and instructed, or did you re-
ceive hints from any one as to the mode of committing murder ?
No, except from Hare. We often spoke about it, and we agreed
that suffocation was the best way. Hare said so, and I agreed
with him. We generally did it by suffocation. Did you receive
any encouragement to commit or persevere in committing these
atrocities ? Yes ; we were frequently told by Paterson that he
would take as many bodies as we could get for him. When we
got one, he always told us to get more. There was commonly
another person with him of the name of Falconer. They general-
ly pressed us to get more bodies for them. To whom were the
bodies so murdered sold ?—To Dr ——.  We took the bodies to
his rooms in——— ———, and then went to his house to re-
ceive the money for them. Sometimes he paid us himself; some-
times we were paid by his assistants. No questions were ever
asked as to the mode in which we had come by the bodies. We
had nothing to do but to leave a body at the rooms, and go and
get the money.

Did you ever, upon any occasion, sell a body or bodies to any
other lecturer in this place ? Never. We knew no other.

You have been a resurrectionist (as it is called) I understand ?
No.    Neither Hare nor myself ever got a body from a church-
yard.    All we sold were murdered save the first one, which was
that of the woman who died a natural death in Hare's house.    We
began with that: our crimes then commenced.    The victims we
selected were generally elderly persons.    They could  be more
easily disposed of than persons in the vigour of health.


Lamentations,

Confessions, &  Reffections

OF

WILLIAM	 BURKE, late of Portsburgh, who is to
be Executed at Edinburgh, on the 28th January,
1829, for Murder, and his body given for Public
Dissection.

[The writer of the following Lines, at the solitary hour of
one o'clock the other morning, took a walk to the Calton Hill,
and laid himself down on the south side, opposite the Jail,
rolled up in hit mautle, reflecting on the vicissitudes of life,
and on the scene before him, when he heard, or imagined he
heard, the following Effusions from the cell at the wretched
Burke.]

" Good people all, both great and small,
I pray you lend an ear,
Unto these lines that I have penn'd,
Which quickly you shall hear.

O, if my days were to begin,
I to the world would show,
That I would shun the paths of sin,
Wherain destroyers go.

But ah ! these days are past and gone,
In fetters here I lie,
Confined in a dungeon strong,
By men condemned to die.

Because God's law I did transgress.
And would not walk therein,
But fled the paths of righteousness,
And trod the paths of sin,

These shocking murders harrass my soul,
Which cruelly I've committed,
For paltry gain, which ne'er lasts long,
With those who basely get it.

When first I began this wild career,
'Twas with the old pensioner,
Who died a natural death last year,
But did not obtain a sepulchre.

The body we brought to Surgeons Square
Soon got a ready market for't,
And encourag'd thus to bring some more,
The rest soon followed after it.

Four were chok'd in Broggan s house,
Though Broggan did not know,
And four were murder'd in my house,
Which caused my overthrow.

Six victims more in Hare's house,
Were suffocated too;
Besides two other victims in his stable,
Which I most sincerely rue.

My sentence, therefore, must be just,
For God's commandment says,
He that sheddeth another's blood,   
His blood must it appease.

O, therefore, holy son of God,
Do thou my soul relieve,
From God's wrath and afflicting rod,
That now my soul doth grieve ;

On thy redemption I depend,
O, cast me not away ;
But shield my soul, and me defend
Against the evil day.

PRICE ONE PENNY.Correct Account of             

THE RIOTS   

Conerning Stealing Dead Bodies,  in  different parts of Grlasgow
On Saturday and Sunday, the   1st and 2d March,   1823; with   an aceount of
the Dead Bodies, and the Heads Limbs & pieces of Human Bodies Found.

Early   on  Friday  night.  the neighbonrhood of the College
Church-yard, was alarmed by noises proceeding from the church,
yard, when the watchman on that station  sprung his  rattle, and
having procured assistance, they entered the graye-yard,  where
they found three doctors and a boy,  whom  they escorted to the
Police Office,                                              

In the middle of the above night, the watchman at Lady-well
street remarked two well dressed persons hastening toward the
High Church-yard   An interyal of some  minutes elapsed, when
he perceived the same  persons return,  followed by some others 
bearing  something tied up in  a large bundle.— An alarm was
instantly given, when the watchmen assembled, and  having se-
cured the man who was bearing the bundle, and a young. man
who appeared of the same party, they then proceeded to examine 
the bundle;  which was found to be the   body of a man deceased,
who had lived in the Havannah, and who was lately interred in
the aforesa id   church  yard.    The fellow that carried the corpse
made such oppositions to his being taken, by striking. kicking, and
biting the watchmen, that they thought proper to bind him and the
corpse together, on a hurley, when they were removed to the Of-
fice.    It was   with   great difficulty the police could prevent the
crowd that. assembled from taking vengeance on-him.    The son of
the man disinterred, appeared at the Office some time afterwards,
to claim his father's body,

Drawing conclusions from those and other events, it was that a great concourse
of people assembled opposite a  lecture room in Duke street, on Saturday
morning, at half past nine o' clock, when they proceeded to break open the
door, when a most appalling scene presented itself....On the floor, stood a large
tub, in which was found a number of heads, arms and legs. On the table lay
the whole body of a woman with long hair. The body of a man lay aside it.
with the head cut off, and the entrrils out, and otherwise dissected. At the
end of the room was a complete skeleton. Other rhangled bodies were found,
and limbs and mutilated fragments of bodies were strewed about the room. The
mobs were so exasperated that, siezing the bodies and every thing found in the
room; they tossed them into the streets. They were proceeding to demolish
the premises until the arrival of Baillie Snell, with the Police, and a detachment
of  soldiers, when a proper guard was stationed to prevent farther violence,

Yesterday forennon; a crowd assembled an Portlaad street, at another lecture
room, when they had proceeded to break the other door, and were proceeding
to the room, when they were alarmed by the arrival of the Police. Some bones
were found on the premises, arid were tossed about by the crowd. Guards are
placed to prevent mischief while a legal investigation is going on, to satisfy the
public mind.                                          

Mayne & Co.Extraordinary Occurrence,
and Supposed Murder, &c.



An Account of a most Extraordinary cir-
cumstance that took place on Friday
night, the 31st October 1828, in a
House in the West Port, Edinburgh,
where an old Woman of the name of
Campbell is supposed to have been
Murdered, and her Body Sold to a
Medical Doctor.

WE have various accounts of the above me-
lancholy occurrence, which, of course, we
cannot vouch for. There is no doubt, however, of
the circumstance, of the body of an old woman
being seen on the floor of the house of Burt or
Burke, in the West Port, and of the same body
being taken from a Lecture Room to the Police
Office yesterday morning, under very suspicious
' circumstances of having been murdered. We copy
the following paragraph from this day's Evening
Courant on the subject, which is the only account
yet published of this affair :—

" An old woman of the name of Campbell, from
Ireland, came  to Edinburgh  some  days  ago, in
search of a son, whom she found, and who after-
wards went out of town, in  search of work.    She
took  up her lodgings  on Friday, in  the house of
a man named Burt or Burke, in the West Port.    It
appears that there was  a merry making in Burke's
that night; at least the noise of music and dancing
was heard,  and it is believed the glass circulated
pretty freely among the party.    The Old woman, it
is said, with  reluctance joined in the mirth, and
also partook of the  liquor, and was  to  sleep on
straw alongside of Burke's bed.    During the night
shrieks  were heard ; but the neighbours paid no
attention, as such sounds were not unusual in the
house.    In the morning, however, a female,  on
going into Burke's, observed the old woman lying
as if dead, some of the straw being above her.   She
did not say any thing, or raise any alarm ; but, in
the evening, circumstances transpired which led to
a belief that all was not right, for, by this time the
body had been removed out of the house, and, it
was suspected, had been sold to a public lecturer.
Information was conveyed to the police, and the
whole party taken into custody.    After a search,
the body was found yesterday morning in the lec-
ture room of a respectable practitioner, who, the
instant he was informed of the circumstance, not
only gave it up, but afforded every information in
his power.    The body is now in the police-office,
and will be examined by medical gentlemen in the
course of the day.    There are some very strong
and  singular circumstances  connected  with  the
case, which have given rise to the suspicions."

Edinburgh, 3d November, 1828,
PRICE ONE PENNY.RESURRECTION.

Full, True, and Particular Account of the seizure
of the Body of an Old  Woman, on  Saturday
Night, the 8th instant, at the head of Infirmary
Street, on its Way to Surgeon's Square ; with an
acconnt of that Horrid and Awful event which
took place at Falkirk, where a Woman was
carried off by three men, and supposed to be
Bnrked.

With horror we record another instance of Re-
surrectionists stealing Dead Bodies. This is a
crime for which we have the most awful detesta-
tion, and we cannot too strongly deprecate the
characters of those who live by the abominable
traffic of Dead Bodies.

Such high prices are given by Surgeons for Hu-
man Bodies, that the monsters who supply them
will run any risk in procuring them. What pain-
ful feelings must the relatives of the deceased have
when the intelligence reaches them that the body
of their nearest and dearest friend has been taken
from the grave, (and which put them, to a great
deal of expense,) to be cut and mangled by Sur-
geons, and ultimately consumed to ashes.

What induced that Monster, Burke, to Mur-
der so many human beings? Nothing but the
price offered to him by the Surgeons. And what
can induce those infernal fiends to pillage church-
yards ? Nothing but the price paid them by the
Lecturers on Anatomy ! Are the Public always
to be tampered with in this manner ? if they are,
Shame to Scotland.-The idea of this is truly hor-
rible.

Let some punishment be inflicted equal to the
crime, and the recurrence of it will be less fre-
quent,

On Saturday night,  about half-past Seven, two
men in a Gig, were eyed by some persons coming
along Nicolson Street.    When they observed the
people watching them so narrowly, they drove on
as quick  as  possible  till  they reached  Infirmary
Street, when the crowd became so great that they
were forced to leap from the Gig, and  made off.
The body of a Woman, about 50 years of age,
was found in the Gig, and taken  to the Police
Office, where it now lyes.    The Horse and Gig
were sent to the White  Hart  Inn, Grassmarket.
One of the despicable wretches is supposed to be
Gow, a noted resurrectionist.    The Police are in
search of them.

WOMAN SUPPOSED TO BE BURKED!

On Sunday a man applied at the Police Office
here for a Warrant to search the Lecture Rooms
for the Body of his Wife, who had not been seen
since Monday last. He belongs to Falkirk, and
it is believed the poor woman has been Burked !

John Campbell, Printer, Edinburgh.Riot at Dumfries!

Hares Arrival.

A Full and Particular Account of the
Reception    of   WILLIAM   HARE,
one of the West Port Murderers, at
Dumfries, on Friday morning last, on
his way to Ireland !

This atrocious character was liberated on Thurs-
day evening, the 5th February, from the Calton
Jail, and took his seat, disguised, in the mail for
Portpatrick ; but having been recognized at Dum-
fries, a terrible riot took place in consequence.
The Mob having attacked the Jail wherein he had
taken shelter.....We copy the following paragraph
from the Courant of this day :

'• THE MURDERER   HARE.—We   mentioned in
our last publication, that this wretch had been ob-
liged to seek refuge from the fury of the populace
in the King's Arms Inn, Dumfries.    It appears he
was recognised in the following manner:  He was
entered from Edinburgh for Portpatrick as an out-
side passenger in the mail by the name of Black ;
and after  travelling   a   stage  or   two,   the guard,
without knowing  him, consented to allow him to
get inside  the  coach, as  the night was damp and
cold, but  he  had only got  up  one or two of the
steps'at the coach door, when a highly respectable
legal gentleman, who was   an   outside  passenger,
and who knew  him,  having   been   professionally
employed in the late case against  the ruffian, call-
ed  out,   '. Would  you put  a  murderer  inside ?"
This led  to the  discovery, and the coach had not
long arrived at Dumfries when the news of his in-
famons arrival became generally known.   A crowd
instantly assembled, evincing  the most determin-
edly hostile intentions.    For protection, the wretch
was locked up in the tap-room of the Inn until the
Porcpatrick   mail   should   start, which   is   usually
about  nine   o'clock     Until   that hour   the   mob
though  it continued to increase, many coming no
doubt to get a glimpse of such a notorious'charac-
ter, was tolerably quiet,  under an expectation that
he would   take   his   departure   by the  Portpatrick
mail.     By nine   o clock,   for  half a  mile   on  the
road, the crowd became immense

" The coach drew  up to  the  inn door, but for
Hare to have ventured out  would  have   been cer-
tain destruction, and, consequently, the coach drove
off without him.    It had  not proceeded far when
it was stopped  by the  populace,  and a most strict
search  was  made in  case he was concealed, even
the boot  was  examined.    Being disappointed, the
people became more enraged, and, in consequence,
the magistrates were seriouly alarmed for the peace
of the town.    As a russe, they caused a post-chaise
to draw up  at the front of the inn,  into which, it
was  stated, Hare  would proceed  on his journey.
They, at the same time, however, got another chaise
to the bottom of the yard of the inn, from whence
he contrived to escape unobserved from a  back
window and  to walk along  to the vehicle, which
was driven rapidly to the jail, followed by the mob,
who soon found out the trick.    The jail was then
assailed with  stones, the most of the windows of
the Court Room were broken, and one of the doors
forced.     The police and constables,  however, suc-
    ceeded, with   some difficulty,  in  restoring  order,
    but the crowd  remained in   the  street  till after
   dark.    During the night, the wretch was taken out
   of jail and privately conveyed on foot out of town,
   on the Carlisle  road, under an escort of police
    officers,"  Edinburgh Evening Courant, Feb. 9, 1829,

PRICE ONE PENNY. ROBBERY OF



Dead Bodies.

An account of that woman who died in Jamaica
Street, Edinburgh, on the 3d Feb. 1825, and after
being coffined and locked up, the room was en-
tered by a window, the corpse stolen, and the
coffin filled with stones ; also the apprehension of
a resurrection man in Haddington church-yard
with the instruments employed for lifting the
dead. Likewise an account of the discovery of
the body of a man in a trunk, by  a porter at
Pettycur while carrying it to the steam-boat, on
Tuesday the 8th Feb and which had been brought
from Dundee on its way to Edinburgh.

Those who follow the unlawful employment of stealing dead
bodies are now contriving, in place of taking them out of their
graves, to get possession of them belore they are buried. Last
week, a poor woman, who lived by  herself, died in Jamaica Street,
when her body was placed in a coffin and the house shut up. In
the course of Thursday night the house was entered by a window
from a back lane, the body was carried off, and the coffin filled
with stones. The discovery was not made till Friday, when the
interment was about to take place.

On Friday the 30th ult. about one o'clock, the watchmen, when
going their rounds in the church-yard of Haddington, had their
attention suddenly arrested by the sound of a whistle; being fully
convinced of the sound having proceeded from a person intending
to desturb the silent repositories of the dead, they stationed them-
selves near to the place where four bodies were lately interred, to
wait in silence the approach of the resurrectionist. In a few
minutes he leaped over the wall, carrying along with him a bag,
a rope, and a screw, (such as is used on similiar occasions), when
he was immediately laid hold of by Andrew Kerse, late of the
49th regiment, who, with the assistance of his neighbour watch-
men, conducted him to the watch-house, in the coal-honse of
which he was confined till eight o'clock, when he was carried
before Provost Dodds for examination; but he persisted in silence
in his presence, as he had hitherto done in the watch-house ;
he was therefore committed to jail for farther examination. He
appears to be an Irishman, but refuses to give his name or the
number of his accomplices.

An occurrence happened at Pettycur on Tuesday forenoon,
which nearly proved fatal to the person concerned. The Coach
arrived from Dundee with passengers and luggage for the Steam
Boat at Pettycur for Leith ; the porters employed carrying a
trunk from the Coach to to the Boat, thought that a nauseous
smell peoceeded from it and immediately threw it down, waiting
for their employer, who was well known as a constant weekly
passenger for some time past; and when he came forward, the
crowd which by this time began to get numerous, demanded to
see it opened, which he stiffly refused, untill he saw that violence
was going to be applied, when he told them that his master was
in the Inn, and he would go and get the key. Judging his in-
tention, they watched him, to see if he would enter the Inn,
but as soon as he passed the door he took to his heels, and
endeauoured to make his escape; he was however overtaken, and
was with great difficulty lodged in Kingborn Jail, not without
some cuts and bruises from the usage of the crowd ; who, especially
the women, manifested a determination to give him summary
punishment; the trunk was opened, and the body of a dead man
found therein, supposed to be taken from [some of the Church.    
yards in Dundee.                                                                           

Edinburgh, Printed for J. Seller .RUMOUR

OF

Burking in Leith.

A Full, True, and Interesting Account of
the Serious Rumours at present afloat of
Two Fish-Women being missed in Leith
within a few days past, and of their bodies
having been found hidden in a barrel,—
as also of the apprehension of the suspect-
ed individual.

A subject which, if true, is in some de-
gree paralell to the atrocious deeds of the
notorious Burke and Hare, at present forms
the all-engrossing subject of conversation a-
mong all classes of society in the town of
Leith and its neigbhourhood.

The transaction having but lately occurred,
and it being impossible for us during the in-
vestigation of such cases, (even judging from
its features so currently reported), to give
any thing like a correct statement thereof,
we trust we shall not be liable to any serious
imputation of incorroctness in communicat-
ing to the public, the following detached,
and in many respects contradictory acounts
so current among the inhabitants of the
town where transaction is said to have taken
place.

It appears that two poor women who were
in  the constant habit of earning their sub-
sistence   by  the   laborious   and   industrious
occupation of gathering shell-fish,  and dis-
posing of them to the inhabitants of the sur-
rounding country, were understood to have
been up very early one morning in the latter
end of last week, to  go to the Black Rocks,
for the purpose of pursuing their nsual avo-
cations, and not  returning  again, iheir  ab-
sence created a general surmise among their
acquaintances as to their fate.    In the course
of their conjectures, it is said it  was assert-
ed, that the place they were last seen at that
morning, was at or near to a Mr A----n's re-
siding near the  shore.    In  consequence of
this, it is said, that he was strongly suspect-
ed of some unfair conduct towards the missed
individuals, and a great mob assembled near
his house, threatening him with  instant de-
struction,   when the police  interfered,   and
conveyed him to the office, where, it is said,
he still remains, as some say, for protection,
others for investigation.

Other accounts say, that the bodies were
discovered from the smell, hidden in a large
barrel or hogshead.

It is also rumoured, that the individual
implicated in this transaction, had been for-
merly known, or suspected to have had a
hand in something of the same nature be-
fore.

For the truth of any of the above reports,
we cannot attempt to vouch, but such are
the rumours in general afloat among the
people ;—though it appears to us most likely
the upshot of the affair will turn out to be,
that the unfortunate individuals were sur-
rounded by the sea, and perished in a wa-
tery grave.

Edinburgh, Printed for George Craig,
Price One Penny.TRIAL 

and sentence

An account of the trial and Sen-
tence of Andrew Ewart, for the
murder of Henry Pennycook,
in the Church yard of Libber-
ton on the 4th December, last 1827
and who is to be executed at
Edinburgh on the I2th day of
March next.1828.  

This day Monday llth February,came on the 
Trial before the High Court of Justiciary of Andrew
Ewart, for firing a guu loaded with swan shot, on the
morning of Wednesday the 5th December last, within
the Church-yard of Libberton, and wounding Henry
Pennycuick in the right arm, whereby he lingered
till the 8th of the same month, when he died.

The substance of the evidence was that the de-
ceased and the prisoner were, along with others in
the watch-house of the church yard of Libbertorn on
Tuesday evening the 4th day of December last.

They were so earnestly occupied in conversation of
what took in the church yard on the Monday pre
Ceding, when the watchman of that night apprehend-
ed a body-snatcher in the act of opening the grave,
that they did not observe the deceased leave them.
Shortly afterwards he was followed by another, who
observing a dusky figure standing at the end of the
watchhouse, hastily returned, and gave an alarm that
another resurrection man was in the yard. Firmly
impressed with this idea, he snatched up a loaded gun,
ran to the door, and instantly levelled it at the sup-
posed intruder, who pacifically said, ' Surely you'l
not shoot me? but the words had scarcely escaped
his lips ere he received the contents in his arm. It
was then too late, discovered that the unfortunate
man was Pennycuick; and that a friends life had
been sacrificed instead of that of a sacrilegious depre-
dator....Pennycuick died on the Saturday following,

The public Prosecutor tor addressed the Jury at great
length, which was ably answered by the Prisoners
council. The Jury then retired and in a few
minutes raturned a verdict of Guilty, but strongly re-
commended the prisoner tu mercy.

The Lord Justice clerk after addressing the prison-
er sentenced him to be executed at Edinburgh, on
Wednesday, 12th day of March next.

The prisoner is a decent looking man, appeared to
be very very much affected when the awful sentence
of death was prohounced against him. 



