THE

SEBASTOPOL  FASHIONS.



Written by GEORGE BILLINGE, (Copyright)

       Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale Stationer. 9 King Street, (off Trongate.) Glasgow.

Good people now just pray attend for awhile,

And I'll sing you a song that will cause you to smile,

Some curious facts to you I will tell,

But I can't tell you yet that Sebastopol fell.

CHORUS.

This shows every trade into you they do pour,
The latest new fashions from the Russian War.

As you walk up and down in the town every day,
To look at the fashions the newest and gay,
You can have a Russian hat so neat and so pat,
For it is Alma this and Sebastopol that.

The first to begin, are the Tailors so true,
For, if you want a suit in Black, Green. or Blue,
All the time they are measuring, they ask with a smile,
If you'll have them made after the Sebastopol style.

The Shoemakers too they are on the look out,
To serve you with the latest new fashions just out,
And to please you all not one moment will loose,
With new Sebastopol boots, or the best Alma shoes.

The Drapers shops too have a pretty display,
For you to look at, as you pass that way,
You, will see Alma Handkerchiefs, Collars, and all,
And you can have a most splended Sebastopol shawl.

The Barbers too they are not far behind,
While you they are dressing fresh news they will find,
And the question to you they quickly will pop,
If you would not like to have a Sebastopol crop.

There is Alma Refreshment Rooms, and Alma Inns ;
Sebastopol Blacking, and Needles and Pins ;
And, when you dine at a Refreshment Room, it will
make you smile,
When they tell you your meat's cut in Sebastopol style.

The Fleshers, as yet, they have not found a plan,
To come up to the fashions like another man;

But perhaps, before long, you will soon cry ' oh lawk,
I declare there's Sebastopol beef, mutton and pork.

Now they say that the Russian bread is quite black,
And is hardly fit for a dog or a cat;
So if all the Bakers take right thoughts in their head,
They'll have nothing to do with Sebastopol bread.

The Spirit Dealers now, are all near the floor,
For they do not like the thoughts about the Maine Law
So, if they want to make money quick, and that
without fail,

They must have the best Alma Whisky and Sebasto-
pol Ale.

The Grocers can make a very good show,
Since the Sebastopol fashions are now all the go;    
They have got good Turkey coffee, & best China teas,
Perhaps they'll have fine Alma bacon and Sebastopol
Cheese.

The Hatters too have made a capital hit,
For if you want a hat or a cap for to fit,
They'll tell you the newest shapes are so pat,
To be fonnd in the best Alma cap or Sebastopol hat.

Now when the fair maids at a shop make a call,
They see Sebastopol dresses, and bonnets, and all,
So I expect to see in a very short while,
Every body dressed up in Sebastopol style.

When for a smoke you're inclined to drive away care,
Into a bacco shop then you're course you do steer,
And you will find yourself in a moment all wright,
For a nice Alma Cigar, and Sebastopol Pipe.

Now where ever you travel to, on old Britain's shore,
The only talk is about the Russian War;
But drive away sorrow and have no dull cares,
For, I think we shall wallop the Sebastopol Bears.

Now to get the new fashions why every one tries,
There is nice Alma tarts, and Sebastopol pies,
And I dont mean to tell you I come from hong kong,
But I'll warant that this is a Sebastopol song.

221The Dark Girl

Dressed in Blue.

When first in Glasgow I arrived, the truth I will unfold,
I had a pocketbook with me, well filled with notes and gold,
I walked about from place to place its beauties for to view,
When all at once I chanced to see a Dark Girl dressed in blue

	She was a nice gal, fal de riddle i do,
	A beauty, fal de riddle eh.
	She was a fine girl, fal de riddle i do,
	A charmer, fal de riddle eh,

Her graceful leg and fairy feet, and eyes like diamonds bright,
Her coal black hair and rosy cheek they did my heart delight,
She stepped into an omnibus, I thought I'd go in too,
And there I took my seat beside that dark girl dressed in blue.

The 'bus got thronger as we went, she got crushed up rather tight,
At length she fainted as I thought, which put me in a fright,
Says I, " my dear, a crowded place does not agree with you."
" Oh sir, assist me to get out," said the Dark Girl dressed in blue,

When we got out of the omnibus, we walked arm in arm together,
Then she made free to ask of me, if I'd got a father or mother,
"O yes,'' says I, "and a grandmother too, bat pray miss, what areyou'
I'm head engineer in a milliner's shop, said the dark girl dressed in blue

As we walked on, says I, "you're much fatigued I think,
Will you go into this public house, and have a glass of drink,
To pay for which she declared she would, saying. " Sir. oblige me do,
To change this note, I refuse could not, this dark girl dressed in blue,

The change for her I did obtain, she says, " Sir, excuse me pray,
Remain yon here for a short time, I shan't be long away,"
Scarce had she gone, a policeman came saying. " Please, sir, I want you,
That, was a forged note just now changed, where's the dark girl dressed
	in blue,"

Then to the station I was marched, and before the bailies took.
And there I told them I had lost my watch and pocket book,
They placed a lady at the bar, quite different to my  view.
For in deep mourning she was rigged, not a dark girl dressed is blue,

They raised her veil, to my surprise, I was taken all aback,
Her dress it was a reversible, a sky blue and deep black,
The charge it likewise was reversed, they believed my statement true,
They acquitted me, but sixty days gave the dark girl dressed in blue.

So all young gents I pray beware, and a warning take by me,
For young ladies are not always what they do appear to be,
Examine well each shawl and dress, the lining likewise too,
Or a transformation scene you'll have, like the dark girl dressed in blue.

72THE

LADY's   ANSWER,

T O   T H E               

Sev'ral   little   Satyres

O N   T H E

HOOP'D PETTICOATS.


PRovock'd at length by such unhumane Spite,
Such fordid Stuff,  we're  now compell'd to write;
And who'd contain, when some so void of Sense,
Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence ;
For we contriv'd the Hoop to interpose
'Twixt us and these confounded Creatures Beaux:
And rather chuse these huge unweildy Tails,
Than the too near Incroachments of the Males.
But they enrag'd and  griev'd at such restraint,
A Thousand Things in vain, to fright us vent :
See how  ( say one ) these  little   Mountains move,
Each moulded in the Shape of Suggar Loaves;
As if they meant to have it understood,
They're something more than common Flesh and Blood.
Bless me !  (another ) what a swinging Tail!
Heav'ns ! how the Ladies mountain-like now fail'
Faith!   Hoops would be good Winter Quarters John;
If they were not too near the Torrid Zone.
Others again  maliciously infold,
And swear the Hoop's a Lover's lurking Hold.
But some lewd Beaux, affecting zealous Rage,
Affirm it doth portend a wanton Age ;
Since, notwithstanding Nature's Store behind,
Engines must be contriv'd to gather Wind.
Good GOD! cou'd any here such horrid Spite;
Such hurtful Cunning, and forbear to write?        
Yet (tho' your Wigs of such an antique Size,
And Hats that seem design'd for Hercules,
Tho' Kapers, Snuff-box-air, pedantick Brains,
Are rare materials for Satyrick Strains;
And tho' invited by a prosperous Gale,
To quite the Shore and loose the eager Sail)
Since we design to heighten   your Restraint,
(Which seems to be the greatest Punishment)
And make the Hoops much larger than before,
For meer Revenge, we'll trouble with no more;
But, if again you venture any where,
To ridicule, by Jove we will not spare.

F   I   N   I   SA new PROCLAMATION cocerning Farthing-
gles, or old Mr. Fashoner shiting Hopt-piti-
coats.

Well Mr Fashoner we cannot but acknewledge your kindness to us the Famale Sex, these Hope Petticoats is a
very fine Invention of yours, they are very Airy and ads to our Shaps.   O what a fine Straper am I with

this Hopt Petticoat.

Mr Fashoner replys these plaged Hopes are so
wide that I can scarce shite them out.

ALL the Inventions that ever was known,

and Fashons that's comes to Edinburgh Town,
these Farding-gale Peticoatc the Devil like's best,
and carrys Precedent above all the rest.

from the Highest to the Lowest Estate,
the very Cock Maid, to the Court Lady great,
ave got a Houp Peticoat to make them look fine,
and adds to their Shapes which is their Design,

this famous invention when Houp's first was made,
the Devil soon Learn'd and set up the Trade,
finding them wanting and so very Scanty,
he fully resolved to shit them out plenty.

Lord Belsebub who, knew well to excell,
    yet to our Town Lady's he's been very Civil,
that he maintains their pride to his great Satisfaction,
and do Dayly Praise this  glorious Action.

[  ]w but above and there ye will find,
She owns Mr. Devil to be very kind,
their Houp Peticoats maks them wouderous meerie
which she Straps out with to be Hansome & Airy

Now here she stands being silled with Pride.
and who but her and her Hands in her side,
And with Childish Ambition she opens her Throat,
says how fine a Miss am I with a Houp Peticoat,

And if it be Prais'd how much must the Donor,
who on our fine Lady's Confers such a Honour,

It seems unto them he's a  great Benefactor,
promoting their Pride and a diligent Acter,'

But as it is above old Lucifer strening,
he's groaning and girning says there's no abiding,
They'r so Damnable Wide,   
They'l Kill me with Striding.

Thanks to good Fortune his Labours not Vain,
his Benefites great tho greater his Pain,
There's as many that comes from his Bum,
may serve the three Nations and all Chrisendome

The Devil may shit untill his Arss cake,
there is one behind him who all away take,
And yet his Compation forbids him to strain,
for working at leasure will much profit gain,

Nor his he been wanting to follow his Station,
in shiting enough to serve the whole Nation,
Come Ladys and Winches all forts and sizes
the Devil keeps Shop you may hive all Fashons.

Come here ye Squirs and Country Clowns,
and buy your Wifes Peticoats and Hansome Gowns
And here ye may Houp them before and behind,
they are usefuland Colling to gather the Wind,

Now I must tell you if that you prove Civil,
encourage the Trade of Old Mr. Devil,
When more new Fashons ye chance to invented
he'll shit them out plenty and gtve you content

THE

LADY's   ANSWER,

T O   T H E

Sev'ral   little   Satyres

O N   TH E

HOOP'D PETTICOATS.

PRovock'd at length by such unhumane Spite,
Such fordid Stuff,  we're  now compell'd to write;
And who'd contain, when some so void of Sense,
Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence;
For we contriv'd the Hoop to interpose
'Twixt us and these confounded Creatures Beaux:
And rather chuse these huge unweildy Tails,
Than the too near Incroachments of the Males.
But they enrag'd and  griev'd at such restraint,
A Thousand Things in vain, to fright us vent :
See how (say one ) these  little  Mountains move,
Each moulded in the Shape of Suggar Loaves,
As if they meant to have it understood,
They're something more than common Flesh and Blood.
Bless me !  (another ) what a swinging Tail!
Heav'ns! how the Ladies mountain-like now fail'
Faith !   Hoops would be good Winter Quarters john;
If they were not too near the Torrid Zone.
Others again  maliciously infold,
And swear the Hoop's a Lever's lurking Hold,
But some lewd Beaux, affecting zealous Rage,
Affirm it doth portend a wanton Age ;
Since, notwithstanding Nature's Store behind,
Engines must be contriv'd to gather Wind.
Good GOD! cou'd any here such horrid Spite;
Such hurtful Cunning, and forbear to write?
Yet (tho' your Wigs of such an antique Size,
And Hats that seem design'd for Hercules,  
Tho' Kapers, Snuff-box-air, pedantick Brains,
Are rare materials for Satyrick Strains;
And tho' invited by a prosperous Gale,
To quite the Shore and loose the eager Sail)
Since we design to heighten  your Restraint,
(Which seems to be the greatest Punishment)
And make the Hoops much larger than before,
For meer Revenge, we'll trouble with no more:
But, if again you venture any where,
'To ridicule, by Love  we will not spare.

FINIS.