DISAPPOINTED  LOVE     

A true account of a young Lady, a Gentleman's
Daughter, who Hanged herself in her own bed-
room at Dundee, on Monday last, 28th July
1823, for the love she bore to a Captain in the
Navy who deserted her, with a beautiful and af-
fecting letter which she Wrote to him the night
before she did the deed.

On the 28th of July Miss H-----n daughter of a respectable

Gentleman in this place, was found suspended from the ceiling of
her room. She made use of a silk scarf for the purpose; she
rose that morning very verly, and one of the servants in passing
her room, heard a noise, she went in to see, out was struck or
beholding the young Lady suspended from the ceiling : she cal-
led for asssistance, which soon arrived, but the lamp of life had
ceased 16 burn, and nothing was left to the friends but to weep at
her untimely and rash conduct. She would, at her father's death,
have fallen heiress to an income of about 4000l. a-year. A West
India Captain was the cause of this rash act, he having held out
promises which he never intended to fulfil, and who sailed for the
West Indies before her remains were laid in the silent grave.—
She sent him the following beautiful and affecting letter the night
before the sad event.

" Dear Captain, — If my exhausted spirits would support my
trembling hand, whilst I write a few lines to ease a broken heart,
it would be the last office I should require them to do. Then
may they leave me ; then may I find in the grave a retreat from
the scorn of men. How is my gold become dim, and my most
fine gold become dross. I do not now command you by the aw-
ful name of virtue, to accuse you of the basest ingratitude ; ah,
no ! the scene is entirely changed : you have robbed me—Cruelly
robbed me of the brightest gem in the female's character, and I
come as an humble suppliant; Is this possible—am I awake, or
do I dream ? Ah ! poor deluded girl, think not what you were,
but what you are ; how can I rest from calling to remembrance
those days of innocence and peace, when, with a serene counten-
rnce and sincere heart I could look up to heaven, and beg that the
God of purity would be my protector ; but ah ! how am I changed,
how is my virtue faded, how doth conscious guilt fill my soul, while
blushes tover my face ; sad reflections on my present state hurry
me to meditate on the future, which opens so tremendous a scene to
my view, as to strike me back in doleful remembrance of the past.
Now Whither shall I fly to find relief ?
What charitable hand will aid me now ?
Will stay my failing steps, support my ruins,
And heal my wounded mind with balmy comfort.

If I fly to my parents, who were once all my comfort, they, bathed
in tears, cry out, You have brought our grey hairs with sorrow to
the grave—If, to get one moment's ease, I wander into the fields,
every flower I see seems to say, We are pure. Thus is all nature
armed against me. And on whose account do I seem to be for-
saken by heaven and earth ?—on your account, who strove to gain
my affections, and become master of them ; and now you triumph
over me—laugh at me, for trusting to your honour, and putting
confidence in your word !

------ O inconstant men !

How will you promise !—how deceive !

O hypocrisy ! how couldest thou wear so winning a form ? Gener-
osity where art thou fled ? Hononr, hast thou forsaken the hu
man race? Look on my distress, O my God. Dispise me not
O my friends, Forgive me, my distressed parents ; then may th
cold grave receive me into its peaceful recesses, where my shame
may be buried in eternal oblivion. Now, if your heart be not as
hard as adamant, if your conscience is not seared as with a hot iron
some past scenes must appear to your view. I do not now summon
you to appear at His awful tribunal; I find you are still too near
my heart; for all your cruelty to me, my return is—May you, in
the hour of death find that consolation from your God and Judge,
you have denied to your                                       AMELIA H.

P. S.—With soothing wiles you won my easy heart,

You sigh'd, you vow'd, but, ah ! you feigned the smart;
Sure of all fiends the blackest we can find.
Are you ingrates, that stab our peace of mind.

Dundee, Printed for   A Jones....Reprinted at Edinburgh.DREADFUL

WARNING
To PARENTS.

WE find that the solemn vows and promises are of so great weight, and strictly
binding by the severe notice God has taken of those that have violated
them, in punishing the dishonour done to his name, by various and fearful judgments;
and the dismal death this young woman died in consequence of breaking her solemn
vow to the man who adored her, furnishes another striking example of the heinousness
of the crime.

It appears that James Thomson, son of a gentieman in Stirling, had but a made-
rate fortune, but was a very accomplished and handsome young man—that, some
time ago, while riding towards this town, he, by accident, saw the lovely Miss
Stewart, standing near her father's house, and instantly fell in love with her.

The beautiful maid on perceiving his eyes were earnestly fixed on her blushed, and
modestly retired, not less captivated with his elegant person and manly looks. They
spoke not to each other, yet both felt, at the same instant, the powerful effects of mu-
tual love. He rode on to dispatch his business, and as soon as he had finished it, his
whole thoughts were ingrossed by what means he would devise to get himself intro-
duced to the innocent maid who fully possessed his heart unknown to herself.

But love, who was not idle, soon gave him an opportunity to exert his skill; for
Miss Stewart was in as bad a condition as himself, and took sick a few days after she
saw him, to the great grief of her parents, who intended to have had her soon marri-
ed to a rich neighbouring gentleman named Pearson, Physicians were called in, but
could do nothing for her, and she daily grew worse. At length young Thomson,
hearing how things were going on, lost no time in disguising himself like a medical
gentleman, rode off to her father's house, and offered his services. He was courte-
ously received, and speedily introduced to his darling's presence; and, as he was
seated, he requested every person to leave the room ; in order that he might converse
slowly with her, as she was very low, and, if possible, to find out her disordeir and
prescribe accordingly which was immediately complied with.

The love-sick maid had no sooner fixed her eyes on him than she knew him, and
fetching a deep sigh, she fainted away ! But he revived her with some cordials that
he brought; so that recovering her senses, her blushes overcame her paleness, and
made a very visible alteration in her countenance for the better. In short, the lovers
soon understood each other so well, that she rapidly recovered, to the great joy of
her grieved parents, who did not know how to recompence this wonderful doctor suf-
ficiently, having no notion of the medicine that so completely effected their darling's
cure. The old gentleman offered him a purse of money, which he refused, saying,
he only wished to visit the family in a friendly way. Her father thanked him, and
requested his company to dinner that day week. Young Thomson, who thought
the day would never arrive, punctually attended in the same disguise, was kindly re-
ceived, and had the inexpressible pleasure of seeing his lovely patient more blooming
than ever. After dinner, he took an opportunity of walking with her in the garden,
where, after a turn or two, sitting down in a pleasant shady bower, they began to
talk of love, and of the day he first visited the family, devouring each other, as it
were, with their eager looks—kissing, and using all the modest freedoms that lovers,
whose hearts were so united and enflamed, could wish or desire ; and after some in-
terrupted sighs, he clasped his arms about her snowy neck—' Ah ! lovely Eliza,'
cried he, ' How blessed am I to have this opportunity to tell you how dearly I love
you; your are the only jewel in nature that I prize, and could I but be possessed of
you, I should think myself the happiest of all mankind.' At this, turning her eyes
with modesty on him, she said, ' That since he had been so kind as come so timely
and save her life, she would recompence him in any lawful way he could desire; for,
though she was courted by a gentleman named Pearson, and whom, she believed,
her parents wished her to marry, yet she was by no means prepossessed in his favour.'
Upon this encouragement, he pressed her further, and vowing eternal love and con-
stancy, she not only .gave her consent to a speedy mariage, but told him, happen
what would, her heart was his—on which, overjoyed with rapture, they returned to
the house. When Thomson was taking leave of the family, Mr Stewart invited him
to a public entertainment that was to be at his house the third day following, which
he accepted, and for that time parted. It appears this first was made to entertain
Pearson, who was exceedingly fond of Eliza, and her father, who wished to have
them married. The day arrived, and the rival lovers met each other at the enter-
tainment, during which Miss Stewart's partiality for Thomson was so evident that
Pearson could not contain himself—he rose hastily from the table and departed.—
The old farmer and his wife were astonished, and could not account for so sudden an
alteration. An explanation took place, when Pearson told what he discovered.
This increased their astonishment; they took their daughter into a room, and told
her what Pearson had-suggested ; when she said, 'Since Thomson has saved my
life, I shall be his wife.' Thomson entering just as she had finished, owned his love,
and asked the father's consent to marry Eliza, which the old farmer refused; and
while Thomson was reproaching him for his ingratitude, Pearson, who heard what
had passed, rushed in with a drawn sword, and made a push at Thomson, but he
nimbly put it aside, and drawing, wounded him in the breast. Thomson immediate-
ly fled. In a short time afterwards, Eliza found means to have an interview with
him, when they vowed nothing but death would part them. With tears and kisses
they parted, promising to write to each other—But, alas ! she was detected on her
return home, confined to her chamber, closely watched, and all her lover's letters
intercepted. She bore her confinement with fortitude, but lost all hopes of being
united with Thomson. Pearson had now full liberty to visit her when he pleased,
and did every thing in his power to render himself agreeable, while her parents daily
pressed her to give him her hand—the cautious maid at last turned to her parents",
and said, ' My loving parents, I never yet disobeyed, but take care you do not ruin
your daughter—I can give my hand—It is out of my power to give my heart.' The
old couple were now happy, and thought their daughter would soon be the
same—but mark the consequence, and let all parents profit by it—she was shortly
afterwards married—she grew melancholy, and would not be comforted. The mar
riage was heard of by Thomson, he could not stand the shock, and in a fit of in-
sanity, he hung himself on a tree, and Eliza being the first that discovered him, she
elapsed him in her arms and immediately expired.

EDINBURGH:—PRINTED FOR JAMES TAYLOR.DREADFUL

WARNING!

To all Lovers.

An Affecting Account of a young woman, a servant
girl in Kirkcaldy, who put an end to her life, for
the sake of a young man there, who had cruelly
deceived her with a solemn promise of Marriage ;
together with a Copy of an interesting LETTER
she wrote to him a few minutes before she did the
deed.                                                                   

THIS affecting occurrence took place on Monday the 8th cur-
rent, in the town of Kirkcaldy ; the man was an English-
man, who said china through the country ; the girl's name, from
motives of delicacy, we forbear mentioning, but who was a servant
there; she hung herself with a napkin, which she tied to an iron
screw in the roof; she was taken down quite dead, and a transcript
of the following letter was found in her possession, which may be
depended upon as genuine:—              

false Lover-—" Before this shall have reached you, I shall have
performed a deed which will create a sting in your conscience
that cannot be effaced till death Your falsehood drove me to it, 
and I grieve for nothing but my parents, who will be at the point
of distraction on my account, and for my untimely end. You
gave me promises which you had no intentoin of ever realizing;
presents to decieve me; and hopes were held out to me, which you
intended only to blast as soon as you got possession of my virtue.
All these promiies you held out to me in our solitary walks, and
even in the midst of friends; but I leave your false heart to reap
the fruits of your inconstant vows ; there is an awful day of reck-
oning fast approaching, when you and I will be called upon to give
an account of our conduct in this respect; I can stand firm in ans-
wering for all the promises I made to you, but you may tremble
for the consequences. I wish you only punishment here

All I hope for is, that your affections may be as
firmly fibed upon some object, as mine were upon you, and that
you may be disappointed, and that you may feel the full weight
of the wound which you inflicted upon me, though the difference
of sex may not make you blush so much, yet it perhaps will make
you feel. I mean, your honour will not be tarnished by being
deceived by a woman ; but a  woman is liable to all that scorn and
derision which the world too often casts upon those who are delud-
ed by the false promises of men like you. I need not say any
thing more, buT [  ]  you to ponder well your bypast life, and

make amends for the future. Think of we when me when lying in the
mansions of the dead, and on that morning when you and I must
render our account. No more, but a last farewell from your
rejected                                                         " M. N-------."MELANCHOLY

SUICIDE,

This morning a case of the most distressing nature has transpired ;
tears have been shed by many, whose eyes were strangers to such a
sensation. On hearing of the case we repaired to the spot, and have
collected the following particulars: —

Miss Ann Bennitt, a fair-haired young woman, 17 years of age,
daughter of Mrs Bennitt, a widow, residing in George's Street, was last
seen about 7, P.M., yesterday ; for some time previous she appeared very
depressed in spirits. On her mother frequently questioning her as to
her uneasiness, and in the most affectionate manner conjuring her to
unbosom herself, added, " Ann, your case surely informs me of every
circumstance." All exertions used by her mother proved quite una-
vailing : she became more and more reserved, and often insinuated she
was tired of life, and would be glad of death to put an end to her misery.
But it has often been observed, that when one seeks the "Grim King
of Terrors" he is not to be found; and that the death-seeker must
either live on or commit suicide.

About half-past seven yesterday she suddenly disappeared, and was
never again seen in life ; and being missed for more time than usual, her
mother,"fearful of the cause, entered her bed room, to discover, if possi-
ble, what had caused her long absence, when, to her grief, as she entered
the private 'apartment of her daughter, she found her suspended by her
silken scarf, a lifeless corpse. She had committed the act with such
determination as to baffle, and wholly prevent any interposition, until
found "by her bereaved mother, suspended as above described, cold and
stiff in death.

The occasion which led to the melancholy catastrophe, are, as far
as can be ascertained, as follows :—

The deceased, Ann Bennitt, had been courted by a young man, Mr
E. S------, a commercial gentleman in this city.    The  passion   appeared
to be mutual, and the light-hearted girl fondly anticipated she was soon
to be joined in the " holy bands of wedlock," by marrying the man of
her choice, her playmate almost from her birth, and her first love.
she had placed her affections on a villain, who defloured her, and after-
wards led another to the "alter of hymen," and that one was her rival.
The blow was too much for her to endure ; she drooped, and ultimately
put an end to her existence as before described.

This is by no means a solitary instance; almost every newspaper
contains cases'of a similar nature. They nearly all emanate from the
same cause. Mutual attachment is the parent of love ; seduction often
usurps the place of marriage ; and the deserted fair one who has forfei-
ted her character, her honor, aed her reputation, seeks for shelter in a
dishonored and premature grave.

The following Letter was found among some papers in her desk,
after death :

MADAM,—In consequence of some circumstanees I do not wish here
to explain, I'beg to state that our intimacy has already gone too far. I
regret the urgent necessity I have for breaking up at once all further
correspondence with you. You may soon select a partner much berrer
suited and one worthier of you, than,               Yours respectfully,
						E. S.

Another Letter, written in her own hand, addressed to her Mother,
			reads thus:

DEAR MOTHER,—The die is cast! The grave yearns to receive,
your unworthy and unfortunate child. I have been seduced and dis-
honored. My conduct has at once expelled me from the society of those
I loved and I now seek an asylum in the grave. I fear death, and the
dread of what may follow after; but the dread of being pointed at with
the finger of scorn Is to me ten times more terrible than anything I can
reasonably expect from the just and humane judge of mankind.  For-
give my seducer, and on no account ever reproach him with being the
cause of my death. I hope no one will ever be so unfeeling as to cast
any  aspersion  on you for what has happened; and will add, as a
futher -dying dying request, that my remains may be laid in the sam
grave  where my dear sister now lies, and as he who hurried on my pre-
mature dissolution does frequently pass a remembrance of his sacred
vows so often pledged may produce on his mind a sad retrospection of
the past That we may meet in happier climes where "sorrow is a
stranger",   is the parting prayer of,           Your  Unfortunate Child,           
                                                                    ANN  BENNITT.

R. REYNOLDS, Printer, &c 489  Lawnmarket.FIGHT

Which took place at the Dumbie-Dykes, on
Friday morging, between a Tailor and
Clothier and a Coachman, in respectable
family in the New Town, originating in
their pretentions to  the hand of a handsome
Lady's-maid living in the same street.

Mr C—------- had long cherished a secret
penchant for the beautiful and accomplished
Miss lucy Martin, and was only prevented
from declaring his passion and throwing him-
self at the feet of his adored by a retiring
modesty towards the fair object of his affec-
tions, mixed up with a soul-harrowing dread
lest his Profession as a Tailor should operate-
as an insuperable bar in the eye of his
angelic Madona to anything like a re-
turn of his ardent flame. Jem the dashing
choachee of an adjoining house, had also cast
a sheep's eye towards the fair object of the
Tailor's fond regard;  and, on a late occasion,
at a convival party by a jovial butler, a mu.
tual friend of the aspiring swains, Coachee
thought proper evultingly to toast off a bum-
per to the health his fair dulcinea. This
liberty taken by Jehu with the idol of his
soul, so enraged honest Stichie that high
words ensued between them, which was
quickly followed by a blow from the dexter
hand of our hero of the whip, which drew
claret from the proboscis of the man of Cloth
who forthwith floored his opponent by a re-
mendous hit on potato-trap. A regular pll-
mell would now have commenced; but, for
the sake of the house, order was re-establish -
ed by their kind entertainer, and prelimin-
aries immediately arranged for settled the
matter by a regular STAND-UP FIGHT.

Both men appeared on the ground at the
appointed time;—the Tailor being seconded
by Tim, the flesher, and Jem by Jarvis, a
brother chip. A ring having been formed.
both stripped and went to work.

Round 1. Both men showed some science ;
they sparred for some minutes, when the
Stichie come down by a left hander upon his
knowledge-box.

Rounds 2 & 3. Good fighting ; the Tailor
jobbed cleverly, and threw down his man.

Round 4. Jem catched it on his dexter
ogle, which made it blush like a full blown
rose. In a close both fell, Jem upper.

Rounds 5, 6, 7, & 8. Lively work ; tiddy
tipping on both sides ; good game shown,
but coachie getting weak, and floored each
time.

Rounds 9 & 10. Counter jobbing ; Jem's
pepper-box shewed ocular demonstrations of
heavy work from his adversary.

From Round 10 to 14, it was evident that
the Tailor had it all his own way, as Jem
was getting weaker and weaker ; but he still
shewed pluck. The two last rounds lasted
only a few seconds, and Jem was taken off
by his suppoaters in a state of great ex-
haustion, having shewn game to the last.

Brown, Printer, Edinburgh.Copy of a Love-Letter from a British Soldier, at present in Holland, to his Sweetheart

in this City.

My Dearest Mary,

RELIEVED for a moment from the din
of arms, with pleasure unutterable,
my love, I dedicate that moment to thee;
what signifies the fatigues I undergo, and
the dangers I daily encounter,-they seem
a pleasure to me, when I reflect, that I do
so for the sake of my bonny bonny Mary.

May that innocence and virtue which
first inspired our love still keep possession
of thy breast, and we shall yet be  happy;
for, believe me, Mary, my love, respect,
and regard for thee are unalterable ; nay,
the farther I remove from thee, the stronger
thy dear image presses on my heart, and
raises  a Hope that makes every perilous
situation in which I am placed seem per-
fectly agreeable.

I once thought your father one of the
most cruel men alive; but now I think
otherwise. Heaven knows what was the
agony of my heart that day he forbid me
again to enter his house; and how every
angry word he said to thee pierced my very
soul!-Had I stayed much longer, even
though he was the father of all I held dear
on earth, I could not have commanded my
passion; but that Providence which has  pre-
served me ever since in safety, while my
companions in arms fell on every side, and
in the midst of dangers, that would make
thee shudder to relate, ordered it otherwise
-I said not a word-but cast one longing
look at thee, and departed. I knew not
where I went-had the river interrupted
the course I took, I dare say I would have
tumbled in, and, perhaps, never more
been heard of; for an indescribable torpi-
tude seized every faculty, and I knew not
that I existed, till chance or some good an-
gel led me to the hawthorn tree where first
we vowed to be constant till united. 

At the sight of it I instantly revived-
sat down under it-every surrounding ob-
ject pleased me, and called to my remem-
brance the sweet moments I have often
here enjoyed ; but, alas ! how fleeting are
all earthly enjoyments.-Silent sorrow
soon succeeded the pleasure I felt-I wept
unpitied and unseen. However, I  soon
became cool, and here formed the resolu-
tion of entering into the army, with the
fond hope that I might, perhaps, gain in
the character of a soldier that which was
wanting to make our marriage agreeable
to your father, or lose a  life, which, with-
out thee, I counted rather a burden than a
blessing.

I immediately inlisted, and, from that
moment, studied nothing but what might
render me useful and agreeable to the of-
ficer under whose command I might be
placed.

Every thing, my dearest Mary, has suc-
ceeded to my wishes-I am now esteemed
by one of the best of Captain's as a brave
and complete soldier ; and, through his in-
fluence, I have been already raised to the
rank of a serjeant.

As it was soon discovered I had got a to-
lerable education, and paid the strictest at-
tention to my duty, I am often employed
in services which turn out to my advan-
tage.

Fear not my dearest Mary-we shall yet
be happy,-whatever the chance of war
may give to me  shall be your's.

We are both but young-this war soon
may terminate-or some other unforeseen
circumstance may call me home, when
it will be in my power, if your parents
should give you nothing, to support you in
a comfortable manner; for before I sailed
I was apprized of the death of my uncle,
so that the property that comes to me, and
what I may here accumulate, will answer
every purpose.

Think on these things, my Dearest Mary,
and be happy-until that much-wished
for period arrives, while life remains, I
am your's, and your's only,

J. T.

Glasgow: -Printed by Thomas Duncan, Saltmarket.THE KING! GOD BLESS HIM.



A goblet of Burgundy, fill, fill, for me,
Give those who prefer it, champagne ;
But whatever the wine, it a bumper must be,
Though we ne'er drink a bumper again :
Now, when the cares of the day are thrown by,
And all man's best feelings possess him,
And the soul lights her beacon of truth in the eye,
Here's a health to the king !     God bless him.
God bless him, &c.

The wealthy of Rome, at their banquets of old,
When to those whom they honoured they quaff'd,
Threw pearls of great price in their goblets of gold
More costly to render their draught !
I boast not of gems, but my heart's in my glass,
Of its love naught can e'er dispossess him;
Upstanding, uncovered ! round, round let it pass,—
Here's a health to the king !  God bless him !
Hurrah! Hurrah!  Hurrah!
Upstanding, uncovered, round, round let it pass,
Here's a health to the  king !  God bless him,           



MERRILY PASS.

MERRILY pass the glass around,
We'll spend a night of glee ;
Let wit and mirth abound, abound,
For jolly good fellows are we.


Scots, Come o'er the
Border.

March!   march!    Ettrick  and   Teviotdale,
Why, the dei'l,  dinnar ye   march  forward  in
order ?
 March !  march ! Eskdale and  Liddesdale,
         All the blue bonnets are bound for the border.
                Many a banner, spread,
                Flutters above your head,
     Many a crest that   is   famous in story !
                Mount and make ready, then,
                Sons  of  the  mountain glen,—
     Fight for the queen, and our old Scottish glory.
                           March !  March! &c.

     Come   from  the hills    where   your  hirsels  are
                    grazing,
         Come from the glens of the buck and the roe;
      Come to the   crag where the beacon is blazing.
        Come with the buckler, the lance, and the bow
                Trumpets   are sounding.
                War steeds are bounding,
Stand to  your arms,   then,   and   march   in   good
               order.
England shall many a day
Tell of the bloody fray,
When the blue bonnets came over the border.
March!  March!  &c.


Tell me Love, where shall
we meet.


Say, shall we meet when the  sun is glowing,
Down by  the streamlet softly flowing,
So watch the rose-enchanting flower'    
Or will you meet me in the bower,
In palace, hall, or lone retreat?
Tell me love, where shall we meet?

Say, shall we meet 'neath the starry brightness,
When the heart throbs with gladsome lightness?
To kneel   before   some holy shrine,
Where my vows shall blend  with thine;
In palace, hall, or lone retreat,
Tell me, love, where shall we meet ?Life, Sufferings, and Death

OF

Janet Fleming,

Daughter of a respectable Farmer near Dunse who was seduced by a pro-
fligate young Nobleman - brought to Edinburgh, and kept in the great-
estep'cndour or some time  and then cruelly deserted and thrown upon
the town—where, after passing through the num rous vicissitudes of a
wicked life she at last fell a victim to disease and died in a noted house
in James's Square. With a copy of an Interesting Letter she wrote to
her aged parentn, a few days before her death—an account of their Visit
to her miserable abode,—and a copy of Verses found under her pil ow
after her decease.

MISS JANET FLEMING was the elder daughter
of Mr Alexander Fleming, a respectable farmer
in the vicinity of Dunse. At the early age of seventeen,
Janet had the misfortune to attract the attention of a,
Profligate young nobleman who happened to be on a
fishing excursion in that neighbourhood Determined
to effect her ruin, he took every opportunity of putting
himself in her way; and, by making her numberless
little presents, and filling her head with notions of future
grandure, he prevailed upon the unsuspecting maid to
quit her parents' roof, and go  with him to Edinburgh.

Upon her arrival in town, her noble seducer placed
her in stylish lodgings, where she was dressed in the most
fashionable manner, and had a maid to wait upon her.
He took her to all fa hionable places of amusements, and
never seemed happy but when in her company. In this
manner about twelve month passed away, in a continual
round of dissipation, when there appeared a visible change
in the conduct of her noble and vile seducer. His visits
became less frequent—he upbraided her with extrava.
gance—and she, in return, reproached him with seducing
her from her dear parents and peaceful home. Things
went on in this way for a few weeks, when the wretch
set off for the Continent, leaving her in possession of
only a few shillings, and heavily in arrears with her land-
lady. For some time she subsisted by pawning the trin-
kets and other valuables presented by her seducer, until
she attracted the notice of a young gentleman of fashion,
with whom she cohabited for nearly three months. Left
again to her own resources, and descending step by step,
she was at length reduced to obtain a livelihood by the
casual wages of' prostitution ; and ran from one scene of
dissipation to another, undergoing all the pains of loath
some disease, which persons seldom escape whose lives
are spent in acts of debauchery. At last, worn out by the
fatigues of a wicked and vicious life, she lay down on
that fatal bed from which she would never rise in life.—
and, conscious of her approaching dissolution, wrote the
following short epistle to her afflicted parents ;—

" Dear Father and Mother.—If you have not altogether discarded from
your m  mory, as unworthy of even occupying a place in your thoughts, her
whom you once loved, and reared wich such parental fondness. but who so
vilely repaid your affection te attentions and slighted your friendly instruc-
tions, as to oppress with sorrow the hearts and cover with shame the heads
which she was bound to lighten and to honour, you will yet drop a tear of
pity on the receipt of this.

Deluded by the flattering promises of Lord .----— , I was prevailed on
to desert my peaceful home, and acconpany him to this town, where after
a few months of the most assiduous attention his conduct became more re-
served, and at length she artful seducer left me a prey to misery and ruin
I cannot paint to you my further degradasion—suffice it to tay, that, for the
last twelve months, I have frequenty been in a state of utter destitution :
and  in  mements  of retrospective cogitation, have often been disposed to
add self-destruction to my catalogue of crimes But. God be praised,I 
have been yet been prevented from rushing unbidden Into the presence of
my Almighty Maker, with all my sin unpardoned on my head. Stricken
now  by disease, and stretched on a bod of siekness, I feel the cold hand of
death press heavy apon me, and, mourning for the enormity of my trans-
gressions, I am still afraid to meet his chill embrace. Ere this world closes
on her for ever, once more to behold her beloved parents, and receive their
kind forgivenes, would afford a last consolation to their unfortunate daugh-
ter, JANET FLEMING."

With the utmost alacrity her agonized parents prepar"
ed for to visit their wretched daughter, and the follow-
ing morning saw them set off on the coach for Edinburgh,
accompanied by their younger daughter It was evening
when they found themselves in the precints of James's
Square, when they soon found the residence which con-
tained the poor unfortunate. No words can paint their
feelings on beholding her once more—no longer the red
cheeked, sparkling eyed girl they were wont so fondly to
look upon, but now'a pale, emaciated victim of disease,
stretched upon the bed of death. For the two succeed-
ing days she was unremittingly attended by her parents,
for whose exertions, and the religious instructions of a
worthy divine whom they had called, she was extremely
grateful. On the third evening, she breathed her last,—
dying apparently a sincere penitent,—surrounded by her
weeping parents and friends Under her pillow was
found the following lines :—

A woman's honour is a woman's all
You're lost for ever if perchance you fall;
In this, wit, fortune, beauty, form, and mind,
You give like atoms to the whistling wind.

All worth, all pleasure, is with honour 1ost,
A truth which thousands witness to their cost;
The fate of women deeply we deplore.
They fall like stars that set to rise no more.
THE STORM OH THE PAISLEY CANAL.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies can always be had at the Poet's Box, 190 and 192 Overgate, Dundee,

Tune—Original,

Pray look on this victim of Cupid,
Tae my tale of woe give an ear,
As sure as death I'm knocked quite stupid,
I'll gang wrang in the head tae, I fear,
An' it's a' through a lass that I gaed wi',
Ay, Mary M'Phail was her name;
My affections she hag cruelly played wf',
And left me like a wandered wean.

Spoken.—Aye, mony a time I hae laughed
at the idea o' folk gaeu wrang m the head an'
committin' suicide through love, but there's nae.
body kens the impression it leaves when vour
lass leaves you. I ken mony a time I hae fun'
mysol' daunering owre by Jamaica Brlg wi' the
full intention o' throwin' mysel' owre, but on
second consideration when I thoucht on the
trouble it would gie it her fouk, fairly spile my
claes, au' maybe catch cauld, I thoucht it would
be as weel tae nevor mind. Aye, Mary M'Phail
hasna failed tae mak' me fail plenty.

CHORUS.

I wish that I never had seen her,
She has cruelly caused my doonfa'
She's awa' wi' the mate o' a steamer
That sailed on the Paisley Canal

Ye mann ken that her parents resided
In that famous place Paisley toon,
Tae first-fit them we baith had deeided
When Hogmanay nicht would come roUn'.
She said wl' the train she was tired,
And would like tae gang doon by the sea,
So a berth for us baith I then hired
In the Crossmyloof steamshib "Bumbee."

Spoken—Ay, freens, I spared nae expense
tae mak' her comfortable, I took a cabin pas-
sage in that latge and commodious steamship
O' twa hunder punds bur hen, the "Bumbec,'t
o' Crossmyloof. And before st arting that nich
I boeht a bottle a' the hard stuff. nane o' the
"Weekly Mail" kind, mind ye, but the rale Glen-
tak'it, some curran' scones, same potted head,
Some wulks, and several ither luxuries. I took
ane last look o' the shore o' Glesca', a carter
gied us a shove aff, and awa' we started, but I
micht hae kent there wis something gaun tae
tab' place, for before we left the Quay there
wis a punt lying oppeslte tae us wi' a lot o'
man-o-war sailors, on board, and they aye kept
winking at Mary, and she seemed  ltk e it.

When passing the Shaws a great storm
Wi terrible fury cam on
got my Sunday troosers r torn
And Mary she lost her chignon.
I thocht I wad faint wi alarm,
When, A hauns on deck, the Captain roared,
And the erew was a chap wl yae arm,
He says, Throw the main deck overboard.

We hadno gaen far up the channel
When we felt such a thunderin shock,
The Captain gaed aft wi a candle,
And found out we had struck on a fock,
I lost Mary amfdst a' the commotion.
On a flour barrel I sprang aeross,
And by chance was rescnodf rom the ocean,
By a passing punt loaded with dross.

Spoken, —There was a nice predicament tao
be in Talk aboot first-flttinn, I wis bobbin
aboot for three or four hours on the briny ocean
whustlin wi my fingers in my mooth as a signal
o' distress, but at last ane o' Drummonds Gov-
ernment screws cam in sicht, but they either
took me for a buoy, or else the spirit o the storm
and were frichted to tak me on board, but at
last they got convinced I was a human beieg,
so they hove to, and before you could count,
three I was on board and related my sad tale
tae the Captain. But I think a the Captains
Ere tarred wi the same stick, for he jist gied
bis troosers a hitch up an he says. Avast,
you landlubber, the girl will be right enough.
She micht be richt enough for them she was
wi but no for me; but however I arrived back
frae whaur I started, a sadder but a wiser man
I met a the ither fouk gaun hame quite hapyy
singing the Days o Auld Lang Syne, and
Let us be happy together, but I had tae gang
hame singing in tae mysel.
	I wich that I never had seen her, etc.

I had jist been twa days hauie tae a letter
Cam frae Mary that did mak me stare.
She said I should try and forget her
For she couldna see me ony mair
She got spliced the day after the storm
Tae the Captain for saving her life,
So noo I'm left quite forlorn,
Daunerin aboot lookiu oot for a wife.

Spoken.—Aye. the day I got that letter I
kent at auce it was frae Mtry, I could aye tell
her han write, ye wad chink it was wrote wi
the end o a potstick. It commenced wi, Dear
Bauldie (aye she was dear enough tae me ony
way, for the excursion cost me ane an fivepence,
my hail years gatherin, no speakin o three
penc hapenny I spent wi her up at the shows
during the fair time), she says Dear Bauldie,
I hope youll no tak it amiss o me marryin the
Captain o During the /ill/nbee, for what is to be
will be. D/ill/         the tempest me an the mate
got haud o an egg box an clung tae it tae we
were picked up by a large troopship o ane
horse-power and carried back tae the fore/ill/
port o Strabungo. When, without only
hesitation, he asked me if I would be his
partner for life, so I just said aye. because him
saving my life I thoucht he had the richt tae
get me; so when the clergyman asked mo if I
would tak him for better or worse, I said I
would tak him for the better the warst o't
bein disappointin you, but it eanna be helped
noo. Im appointed stewardess on board ane
o the carnal liners, so as there is to be a soiree
on board the nicht, an I hae tae attend a a party
o coalheavers. for the present I'll bid you an
everlasting fareweel, At the fit o the letter
there was a P.S. (I suppose that meant puir
Sowl), it said, If you came tae Strabunge
on Monday next I could get ye a job as pilot
tae pull up ane o the canal ironclads frae;
Paisley every morning. But I would prefer
bein at my ain trade weavin at hame, an.
content mysel singin—
	I wish that I never had seen her, etc'Where is My Nancy ?
PRICE ONE PENNY.
Copies of this very popular song can always be had,
in the Poet's Box
All kinds of Music supplied to order on moderate terms.
Tune-Original.

A charming young creature named Nancy Barr,
Nancy Barr, lived with her ma;
Of fair ones, oh! she was the fairest by far,
A charmer bewitching and smart.
No dicky-bird singing up in the sky,
In the sky, was more happy than I,
But to happiness now I have said " goodbye,"
For to pieces she's broken my heart!

CHORUS.

Does any one know where my Nancy's gone?
Nancy's gone, Nancy's gone;
Does any one know where my Nancy's gone?
Where, oh! where is my Nancy?

At a ball I first met her one night by chance,
Quite by chance, couldn't she dance,
While others would clumsily shuffle and prance,
Her waltzing was something divine.
I felt I was madly in love at first sight,
Love at first sight, lumps of delight,
When I took her to supper and did the polite,
Or helped her to ices and wine.

When she spoke, oh! my head spun round like a top,
My heart went wop, and flippity flop!
So the terrible question I ventured to " pop,"
She blushed, and then softly said " yes."
I measured her finger and bought the ring,
Bought the ring, 'twas just the thing;
All the next week did nothing but dance and sing,
My joy there are few who could guess.

The day it was fixed, and I felt so gay,
Oh! so gay, in my bridal array;
As I went to the church little boys cried "hooray,"
I felt quite inflated with pride.
We were to be married at Hanover Square,
Hanover Square, carriage and pair;
When I got to the church she wasn't there!
Oh! where was my Nancy, my bride?

They say she's eloped with a Horse Guard Blue,
A Horse Guard Blue, oh! a regular do;
I thought her so pretty, so good, and so true,
I felt really out of my mind.
I've searched for her everywhere, but in vain,
All in vain, I feel all over pain,
When I think I may never look on her again,
But I'll wander till Nancy I find.

So, does any one know where my Nancy's gone?
Nancy's gone, Nancy's gone;
Can't somebody tell me where Nancy's gone?
Oh! where, ah! oh, where is my Nancy?

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate despatch may be relied upon.

Saturday morning, Dec. 4, 1869.LOVE LETTER.

Hast thou no pity for my woes ?
Dost thou at me turn up thy nose ?
I'll make my declaration first,
So read straight forward and be curst,—
But if your heart to me incline,
Oh! jump o'er every other line !

The great affection I have hitherto expressed for you
is false, and I now feel that my indifference towards you
increases every day, and the more I see you, the more
you appear ridiculous in my eyes, and an object of contempt.
I feel inclined, and in all respects disposed and determined, to
hate you. Believe me, I never in the least intended to
offer you my hand. Our last conversation has, I assure you,
left a tedious and wretched insipidity, which by no means has
possessed me with the most exalted opinion of your character;
your inconstant temper would always make me miserable,
and if ever we are united, I should experience nothing but
the fearful hatred of my parents, added to the everlasting dis-
pleasure in living with yon. I have indeed a faithful heart
to bestow ; bat, however, I do not wish you to imagine that it is
at your service, for it is impossible I could give it to one more
inconstant and capricious than yourself, and one who is less
capable to do honour to my choice and to my family.

Yes,                 , I beg and desire you will be persuaded that
I think sincerely, that you will do me the greatest pleasure
to avoid me. I shall readily excuse your taking the trouble
to return an answer to this : for your letters are always full of
nonsense and impertinence, and have not the least shadow of
wit or good senses Adieu, and believe truly that I am
so averse to you that it is impossible I should ever be,
Your affectionate lover,

Menzies, Printer, Edinburgh.The Science of Kissing.

People will kiss, yet not one in a hundred knows how to extract
bliss from lovely lips, any more than he knows how to make diamonds
from charcoal. And yet it is easy, at least for us. First know whom
you are going to kiss. Don't make a mistake, although a mistake may
be good. Don't jump like a trout for a fly, and smack a good woman
on the neck, on the ear, on the corner of the forehead, or on the end
of the nose, or knock off her lace veil. The gentleman should be a
little the taller. He should have a clean face, a kind eye, and a mouth
full of expression. Don't kiss everybody. Don't sit down to it;
stand up. Need not be anxious about getting in a crowd. Two persons
are plenty to corner, and catch a kiss; more persons would spoil the
sport. Take the left hand of the lady in your right; let your hat go
to—any place out of the way; place the left hand gentle over the
shoulder of the lady, and let it fall down the right side, towards the
belt. Don't be in a hurry; draw her gently, lovingly, to your heart.
Her head will fail lightly upon your shoulder, and a handsome shoulder-
strap it makes. Don't be in a hurry; send a little life down your left
arm. Her left hand is in your right; let there be an impression to
that, not like the grip of a vice, but a gentle clasp, full of electricity,
thought and respect. Don't be in a hurry. Her head lies carelessly on
your shoulder. You are nearly heart to heart. Look down into her
half-closed eyes. Gently, yet manfully press her to your bosom. Stand
firm. Be brave, but don't be in a hurry. Her lips are almost open.
Lean slightly forward with your head, not the body. Take good aim;
the lips meet; the eyes close; the heart opens; the soul rides the
storms, troubles, and sorrows of life (don't be in a hurry); heaven
opens before you; the world shoots under your feet, as a meteor flashes
across the evening sky (don't be afraid); the nerves dance before the
just erected altar of love as zephyrs dance with the dew-trimmed
flowers; the heart forgets its bitterness, and the art of kissing is learned.
No fuss, no noise, no fluttering. Kissing don't hurt; it don't require
a brass band to make it legal.

L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate,   Dundee.THE

True Secrets of Love.

In these few lines I've laid a plot,
In half an hour you'll read them not—
To read them right, as they should be,
Come—lay a wager—try and see.

Have strong        Just unto             Bound up within my heart,

And I the            Have for              Discover and impart,

I'm sure the         Have for              Is constant, true and kind.

And for the          Have for              I'll never change my mind.

I   LOVE, YOU,

Therefore, my      And darling          Accept and answer make,

Let not the          Have for              Break my young tender heart,

But may the         That is in            Just speak the same to me,

And for the          Have for              I'll ever constant be.

And         And    	And      And     One      	same,       	One,    One,

I           Thou    	Say       Thou    Only       	The         	 Only     Only

Am         	Art     	Then      Art      But         With         	But        But

Only        Only    	Unto     Only     Love         Me           	Loves     Is

He,         She       	Me,      He,      I  	 	 Requite    	Who       There

As none can know the contents of a closed line
Till they open the seal ;
So none can know a young man's mind
Till he the same reveal.

Down {Read/Up}Read  See,{And/You}Shall

  You,{That/I}Love  Me.{If/You}Love


              MENZIES, PRINTER, EDINBURGH.

Bonnie Jeanie Deans.

Far awa' frae Bonnie Scotland,
I have often spent my time,
By the mountains, lakes, and valleys,
In some distant, foreign clime.
There I'd sit and sometimes ponder,
'Midst their bright and varied scenes,
But my thoughts would always wander
To the hame o' Jeanie Deans.

CHORUS.

Here's  to  Anld Reekie, and its glorious  Princes
Street,
Here's to Auld  Reekie, and its  famous Arthur's
Seat,
Here's  to  Auld   Reekie, and   its  grand  historic
scenes,
The hame o' Scotland's bravest lass, my bonnie
Jeanie Deans.

Oft I see her sad and dreary,
Wi' tartan plaid and hame-spun gown;
Broken-hearted, worn, and weary,
Tramping on te London toon.
Leaving those behind who missed her—
Those who knew what true love means,
Seeking pardon for her sister,
Brave, true-hearted Jeanie Deans.

Fancy oftimes brings before me
Jeanie's  simple, winsome style, 
As she told her sad, sad story,
When she met the great Argyle.
Hear her pleading in the garden,
Asking mercy from her Queen;
See her joy, she's got the pardon
Brave, victorious Jeanie Deans.

" Jeanie, woman," though departed,
We will keep the honoured name,
Of one so true and loyal hearted,
Written on the scroll of fame.
Sir Walter Scott immortalised you—
"Thou wert one of nature's queens;"
And in our hearts we'll ever prize you,
Gallant, Scottish Jeanie Deans.

BARR, LONDON STREET, GLASGOW.ON  THE BANKS           

OF                                                        

ALLAN WATER

This Popular Song can always be had at the                                            
Poet's Boz, 224 overgate Dundee

On the banks of Allan Water
When the sweet spring-time did fall
Was the miller's lovely daughter,
Fairest of them all,
For his brlde a soldier sought her,
And a winning tongue had he !
On the banks of Allan Water,
None so gay as she.

On the blinks of Allan Water,
When brown Autumn spreads its store
There I saw the miller's daughter,
But she smiled no more.
For the summer, grief had brought her
And her soldier, false was he ;
On the banks of Allan Water,
None so sad as she ,

On the banks of Allan Water,
When the winter snow fell fast,
There I saw the miller's daughter ;
Chilling blew the blast,
But the millers lovely daughter,
Both from care and cold was free ;
On the banks of Allan Water,
There a corpse lay she,
ON THE BANKS
OF

ALLAN WATER

This Popular Song can always be had at the
Poet's Boz, 224 Overgate Dundee


On the banks of Allan Water
When the sweet spring-time did fall
Was the miller's lovely daughter,
Fairest of them all,
For his brlde a soldier sought her,
And a winning tongue had he !
On the banks of Allan Water,
None so gay as she.

On the bunks of Allan Water,
When brown Autumn spreads its store
There I saw the miller's daughter,
But she smiled no more.
For the summer, grief had brought her
And her soldier, false was he ;
On the banks of Allan Water,
None so sad as she,

On the banks of Allan Water, 
When the winter snow fell fast,
'There I saw the miller's daughter ;
Chillimg blew the blast.
But the miller's lovely daughter,
Both from care and cold was free ;
On the banks of Allan Water,
There a corpse lay she,LADY'S VERSION OF

PRETTY LITTLE NELL

THE FARMER'S DAUGHTER.

Written and Composed expressly for

Miss NELL MOONEY,

By Mr James A. Kerr, Edinburgh.

Air. PRETTY NELL.

Now I am not a fast young lady,
Nor do I lead a fashionable life,
For my father is a farmer
In a village down in Fife,
And I am his only daughter,
And he calls me pretty Nell,
And I am often seen with a pitcher,
Drawing water from the well.

CHORUS.

For I am pretty Nell
The farmer's daughter,
And I am the girl that all the gents
Are looking after.
For to catch me they do try,
But I tell them I'm too shy,
And that I'm pretty little Nell,
The farmer's daughter.

Whilst walking to the well one day
With the pitcher in my hand,
A young gent met me on the way
And before me he did stand,
He said he liked my appearance,
And in love with me had fell,
All through seeing me daily,
Drawing water from the well.

CHORUS.

Next day he met me at the well,
And sweet words to me did say,
Then we walked back to the farm
To see them making hay.
He then praised my eyes, carreased my hair
What else, I cannot tell,
But that he stole away the heart
Of pretty little Nell,

CHORUS.

Now I feel so very happy
All day long I dance and sing,
For he is away from me just now
To buy the wedding ring.
And when he leads me to the Alter,
You shall hear the village bell
Ringing joyously, the whole of the day
For the marriage of pretty Nell.Roslin Castle

Sec. 12.

'Twas in that season of the year,
When all things gay and light appear,
That Colin with the morning ray,
Arose and sung his rural lay,
Of Nanny's charms the Shepherd sung,
The hills and dales with Nanny rung
While Roslin Castle heard the swain,
And echo'd back the cheerful strain.

Awake, sweet Muse! the breathing Spring,
With raptures warm, awake and sing !
A wake and join the vocal throne,
Who hail the morning with a song:
To Nanny raise the cheerful lay:
O, bid her haste and come away !
In sweetest smiles herself adorn,
And add new graces to the morn !

0 hark, my Jove ! on every spray,
Each feather'd warbler tunes his lay ;
'Tis beauty fires the ravish'd throng,
And love inspires the melting song:
Then let my raptur'd notes arise,
For beauty darts from Nanny's eyes,
And love my rising bosom warms,
And fills my soul with sweet alarms.

O come my love ! thy Colin's lay,
With rapture calls, O come away !
Come while this Muse this wreath shall twine,
Around the modest brow of thine,
O ! hither hasten and with thee bring,
That beauty blooming like the spring,
Those graces that divinely shine,
And charm this ravish'd breast of mine.THE BLAEBERRY COURTSHIP

PRICE ON PENNY.

Copies can always be had in the Pos Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow.
AIR—Original.

Will you go to the Highlands, my jewel, with me ?
Will you go to the Highlands the flocks for to see ?
It is health to my jewel to breathe the sweet air,
And to pull the blackberries in the forest so fair.

To the Highlands, my jewel, I will not go with thee,
For the road it is long, and the hills they are high,
I love those vallies and sweet corn fields,
More than all the blaeberries your wild mountains yield.

Our hills they are bonny when the heather's in bloom,
It would cheer a fine fancy in the month of June,
To pull the blaeberries and carry them home,
And set them on your table when December is come.

Out spake her father, that saucy old man,
You might have chosen a mistress among your own clan.
It is but poor entertainment to our Lowland dame,
To promise them heather and blue heather bloom.

Kilt up your green plaidie, walk over yon hill,
For a sight of your Highland face does me much ill,
For I will wed my daughter and spare pennies too,
To whom my heart pleases, and what's that to you.

My plaid it is broad, it has colours anew,
Goodman, for your kindness, I'll leave it with you,
I have got a warm cordial keeps the cold from me,
The blithe blinks of love from your daughter's e'e.

My flocks they are thin, and my lodgings but hare,
And you that has meikle the more you can spare ;
Some of your spare pennies with me you will share,
And you winna send your lassie o er the hills bare.

He went to his daughter to give her advice,
Said, if you go with him, I'm sure you're not wise,
He's a rude Highland fellow, as poor as a crow,
He's of the clan of Caithness for ought that I know.

But if you go with him, I'm sure you'll go bare,
You'll have nothing father or mother can spare,
Of all I possess I'll deprive you for aye,
If o'er the hills, lassie, you go away.

It's father, keep what you are not willing to give,
For fain would I go with him, as sure as 1 live ;
What signifies gold or treasure to me,
If the Highland hills is between my love and me.

Now she is gone with him in spite of them a',
Away to a place that her eyes never saw ;
He had no steed for to carry her on,
But still he said, lassie, think not the road long.

In a warm summer's evening they came to a glen ;
Being wearied with travel the lassie sat down ;
Get up my brave lassie, let us step on,
For the sun will go round before we get home.

My feet are all torn, my shoes are all rent,
I'm wearied with travel and just like to faint ,
Were it not for the sake of your kind company,
I would lie in the desert until that I die.

The day is far spent and the night's coming on,
And step you aside to you bonny mill-town,
And there you'll ask lodgings for thee and for me,
For glad would I be in a barn for to be.

The place it is pleasant and bonny indeed,
But the people are hard-hearted to us that's in need ;
Perhaps they'll not grant us their barn nor; their byre,
But I'll go and ask them as it is your desire.

The lassie went foremost, sure I was to blame,
To ask for a lodging myself I thought shame ;
The lassie replied, with tears not a few,
It's ill ale, said she, that's sour when it's new.

In a short time thereafter they came to a grove,
Where his flocks they were feeding in numberless droves,
Allan stood musing his flocks for to see,
Step on, says the lady, that's no pleasure to me.

A beautiful laddie, with green tartan trews,
And twa bonnie lassies, were bughting in ewes,
They said, honoured master, are you come again,
Long, long have we look'd for you coming hame.

Bught in your ewes, lassies, and go your way hame,
I've brought a swan frae the north, I have her to tame ;
Her feathers are fallen, and where can she lie ?
The best bed in the house her bed shall be.

The lady's heart was far down, it couldna well rise ;
Till many a lad and  lass came in with a phrase,
To welcome the lady, to welcome her home ;
Such a hall in the Highlands she never thought on.

The laddies did whistle and the lassies did sing,
They made her a supper might serve a queen ;
With are and with whisky they drank her health round ;
And they made to the lady a braw bed of down.

Early next morning he led her to the hay,
He bid her look round her as far as she could spy,
These lands and possessions my debt for to pay,
You winna gae round them in a lang summer day.

O Allan ! O Allan ! I'm indebted to thee,
It is a debt, dear Allan, I never can pay,
 O Allan ! O Allan !  how came you for me ?
 Sure I am not worthy your bride for to be.

How call you me Allan, when Sandy's my name ?
Why call you me Allan ? sure you are to blame :   
For don't you remember when at school with thee,
I  was hated by all the rest, but loved by thee ?

How oft have I fed on your bread and your cheese ?
Likewise when you had but a handful of pease ;
Your cruel-hearted father hounded at me his dogs,
They tore my bare heels, and rave all my rags.

Is this my dear Sandy whom I lov'd so dear ?
I have not heard of you this many a year ;
When all the rest went to bed, sleep was frae me,
For thinking on what was become of thee.

My parents were born lang before me,
Perhaps by this time they are drown d in the sea,
These lands and possessions they left them to me,
And I come for you, jewel, to share them with thee.

In love we began, and in love we will end,
And in joy and mirth our days we will spend :
And a voyage to your father once more we will go,
And relieve the old farmer from his trouble and woe.

With men and maid-servants us to wait upon,
So away to her father in a chaise they are gone ;
The laddie went foremost, the brave Highland loun,
Till they came to the road that leads to the town.

When he came to the gate, he gave a loud roar,
Come down, gentle farmer, Catherine's at your door ;
When he look'd out the window, he saw his daughter's face,
With his hat in his hand he made a great phrase.

Keep on your hat, farmer, don't let it fa',
For it sets not the peacock to bow to the craw ;
It's hold your tongue, Sawney, and do not taunt me,
For my daughter's not worthy your bride for to be.

Now he held his bridle reins till he came down,
And then he conveyed him to a fine room ;
With the finest of spirits they drank a fine toast,
And the son and the father drank both in one glass.The  Paisley Officer.

In blythe and bonny Scotland, where the blue bells do grow,
There dwelt a pretty fair maid down in a valley low.

Its all the day long she herded sheep upon the banks of
Clyde,
Altho' her lot in life was low she was called the village pride.

An officer from Paisley town went out to fowl one day,
He wandered to the lovely spot where Mary's cottage lay.

A long and loving look he took upon her form so fair,
And wonder'd how so bright a flower grew and flourish'd
there.                                              

But many times he came again and at each visit paid,
His flatt'ring tongue did win the heart of this sweet village
maid.

At length he came one morning, his face was dark with woe
O  Mary dear," he said to her. " from you I now must go.

Our regiment has received the rout, and love and duty yields,
I  must exchange your lovely glens for India's burning fields

" O Henry," said the tender maid, " from you I cannot part
Take me as your wedded wife—you know you've won my
heart.

To go with you through flood & field is now my chief desire,
And as your servant I will go disguised in man's attire."

He took her on to Paisley town and much they wonder'd
there,
To see the new recruit that look'd so gentle, slight, and fair

The ladies admired her as she stood each day upon parade,
But no one thought the soldier's coat conceal'd a lovelymaid

Soon across the raging seas and marched on burning sand
No pen can trace what Mary bore in India's track of land.

But though she found her strength give way, her woe she
strove to hide,
And smiled as she look'd round and saw young Henry by
her side.

But now the hour of trial came, when on the battle field,
She saw the British troops give way, and to the Indians yield

She saw her lover too struck down a spear had pierced his
side
Yet from his post he never flinch'd, but where he stood he
died.

She raised him from the bloody ground and in her arms him
pressed,
And while she thought to staunch his wound a ball passed
thro' her breast.

So as these pair lived true in life in death they were the same
For when their fond hearts' blood gush'd forth it mixed in
one red stream.PRETTY

LITTLE NELL

THE

FARMERS

Daughter.

WHEN strolling on one summer's day down
	a country lane,
Just for a change of air, my boys, from town that
	day I came,
On  looking round I there beheld a blue eyed
	country lass,
At a well drawing water,  and she smiled  as I
	went past.

Chorus.

Pretty little Nell, the farmer's daughter
I met her at the well drawing water,    
And as I passed her by, I caught the  roguish eye,
Of pretty little Nell, the farmer's daughter

I raised my hat. she blushuig said my manners
	were polite,
I replied a country life must be one scene of
	delight!
She said she was quite  happy in her country
	life so gay,
I  begged that she would meet me, at the well
	again next day.

At the time appointed I was there, the birds sang
	out their lay,
Sweet Nelly met me at the well, she had just
	done making hay;
I put my arms around her waist, and pressed her
	to my side,
Then ask'd this little Village Queen, if she'd be
	my bride.

So   now   we're joined   together, by   marriage
	closest tie.
There is no care or strife between my darling
	wife and I,
And in onr little country home, with our children
	Rose and Nell,
Oft reminds me of the happy day, and the meet-
	of the well.

DOWN

AMONG

THE

COAL.

JEMIMA lived  in service  once, at a house
	in St. Enoch Square,
She ne'er  got out, so I used to go and   cour
	her there,
Her mistersses were two old maids, such very
	particular souls.
That Jemima, often had to hide me, down among
	the coals.

Chorus:

Down among the coals, down among the coals,
All alone and in the dark, I say boys, it is a lark
Down among the coals, down among the cools,
Waiting to make love, to my Jemima.

When in the cellar, cobwebs used to decorate
	my clothes,
The coal dust got into  my eyes, and would
	get up my nose;
And when it rained, the water came trickling
	through a crack,
And  I always fancied,  spiders were  crawling
	up my back.

One night they sent Jemima out, she'd forgotten
	her dear Joe,
Was down among the Walls-ends, and a prisoner
	down below;
I began to freeze, was  obliged to sneeze, and
	I felt inclined to shout,
So I hollo'd through the key-hole, "Here Jemima
	let me out.

At lenght the door was open'd-'twas dark, oh
	best of  bliss,
I flopped my arms around her neck, and gave
	her such a kiss;
A  scream, and  then  a  shovel, gave me one
	upon the head,
I kiss'd her ancient mistress, I needn't say I fled

Love laughs at Locksmiths, so they say, that
	was the case with us,
Of course Jemima got the sack, it caused a dread-
	ful fuss;
But I married her soon after that, and we're as
	happy as a king,
And often round our cosy fire, this is what
	we sing.

670.A Full and Particular Account of that Funny and
Laughable WEDDING that took  place in Cross-
causeway, Edinburgh, on Tuesday Evening, the
15th March 1825, between a young Dashing High-
land Lad, and a well known Old Lady of that place.

THE following ludicrous circumstance excited an extraordinary
 sensation in the Crosscauseway and neighbourhood, on Tues-
day evening, the 15th  March instant.    It appears that a young,
blooming, good looking lad, of the name of M' L—, a watchman,
of very captivating exterior, had, for a considerable period previous,
paid his addresses to a well known old Lady, a purifier of tripe, re-
siding in that place, (better known by another appellation, H——
M——,) who at length yielded to his ardent and pressing suit, and
Tuesday was mutually fixed on for the celebration of their nuptials.

The fair enamorate, in order, as it would seem, to ingratiate her-
self the more deeply into the good graces and favour of her future
Lord, impressed Twenty-five Sovereigns into his hands, in order,
she said, to make him appear very genteel on the occasion, and par-
ticularly to provide him with a new watch; a necessary appendage,
of course, to a gentleman. She also undertook to furnish a most
splendid marriage banquet, which was accordingly ordered, and to
which a great number of the friends, relations and acquaintances of
both parties were formally invited.

Accordingly, at the appointed hour, the company assembled, in
their gayest apparel, among whom were a great many Knights of
the baton, in fine trim. The modest blooming bride appeared
among the astonished natives, dressed in eastern splendour and
magnificence, the very silk gown worn by her on this happy occa-
ston, like the Laird of Dumbiedykes' mother's gowns, would stand
its lane on the floor, it was so rich, and the other parts of her costly
dress corresponded with the gown. She continued to grace the
happy assemblage with her presence, for a considerable time after
the hour appointed, smiling sweetly to some, and courtseying mo-
destly to others, in great good humour ; but of course, anxiously ex-
pecting the arrival of her happy lover, to crown her ardent wishes at
the hymeneal altar.

The clergyman having arrived about this time, to which the now
most anxious and impatient bride was introduced, but there was
still no word of Mr M'L—. The minister sat down beside the
bride, who encouraged her to hope, that her beloved partner would
soon make his appearance, and ease all her anxious doubts and fears,
 which now became evident to the whole company. With some
pleasant chat, and the assistance of an occasional cordial glass now
and then, the reverend gentleman managed to prolong the pleasing
hopes of the arrival of the long expected bridegroom for several
hours after the time previously appointed ; but it was now become
pretty evident that Mr M'L------did not intend to make his appear-
ance at all; for he fairly absconded, as appeared from the following
laconic epistle, which was just handed to the despairing fair one.

Dear loveing beauty I do find, 
My self to wedlock not inclin'd, 
It is a thing so common.                
But for your sake a vow I'll make,    
To marry with no woman.            
It appeared  that Mr M'L------had  adopted the notion, that he
Your gold I'll spend,
With my true friend,
And drink your health so free,
So don't perplex, or yourself vex,
Farewell ! remember me !J.M'L.

 would exhibit his finery to much more advantage upon the Highland
hills, than on the streets of auld Reekie.

The chagrin of the disappointed bride was now awful in the ex-
treme, but she could not still help but to encourage the pleasing hope,
that the bewitched enchanting man would not deceive her yet.  It
turned out otherwise, however; and the old lady fell into an awful
hysterical fit, from which a glass of good brandy was scarcely able
to recover her.    At last, finding herself really abandoned, and that
she could not better herself, she allowed herself to be put into good
spirits again, by repeated applications of strong water.    At her sug-
 gestion, the party partook of their elegant and sumptuous supper,
consisting of every delicacy of the season, and the good old Lady
comforted herself for the loss of her false admirer, by repeated and
 potent doses of Uisgebetha, mollified with hot water and sugar.
After supper, the catgut-scraper struck up a merry lilt, and they con-
tinued to trip it on the  light  fantastic toe till five o'clock in the
morning, when the bride went home, and had to go to bed again
   alone,  which she reluctantly did, but still hoping that Mr M'L

    -----would yet relent, and speedly return to the fond and   longing

   embraces of his dearly beloved M—                              

Printed for A. TURNBULL... Price One Penny.         

           ORIGINAL SONGS        BY JOHN PETTIGREW

Who is troubled with Bronchitis and               unable to follow his lawful employment.
SOLD    ONLY    BY    THE    AUTHOR.

AULD  BAILIE  SNAP.

WRITTEN BY JOHN PETTIGREW.
AIR.—" The Bonnie Wee Window."

There is auld Bailie Snap he does reign in the east,
Wi' a braw gowden chain hanging over his breest;
Every coort mornin' he looks owre his crap,
And laughs at the drunk yins does auld Bailie Snap.

CHORUS.
Oh, for he's the reviewer of every ill doer,
Ye needna tell him ye've been takin' a drap ;
For like an auld miller he grasps at the siller,
There's few can get favour frae auld Bailie Snap.

The ither coort mornin' when daun'ering alang,
Richt into the coort-house I happened tae gang,
Whaur mony a chappie dejectedly sat,
And waited for justice frae auld Bailie Snap.

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

Then the Bailie cam' in wi' a grand polished air,
And sat himsel' doon on a braw cushioned chair ;
Adjusting eye-glass he gied a bit rap -
" Bring forth the first case, noo," said auld Bailie Snap.
Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

The first was a woman, baith tatter'd an' frail,
Wha telt to the coort a most pitiful tale.
Said the judge, "You were drunk, so you'll just be as we
To rest you five days in 'The Temperance Hotel.' ''

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

The next was a labourer ca'd Patrick Muldoon,
Was charged wi' disturbing the hauf o' the toon.
Says the judge, " It's five guineas, or else, my fine man,
You can whistle ' The Blackbird' in the Royal Van."

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

Twa callans for mischief were charged baith the same,
Though evidence showed that yin wasna tae blame;
" If ye didna ocht, ye were there wi' the pack,
So your fined in five shillings," said auld Bailie Snap.

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

The last was a weaver wi' lantern jaw,
Pled guilty to trying to haud up a wa';
He hadna got funds, so the judge did declare,
He could gang up to Duke Street an' prap the wa's there.

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

Sae lang may the Bailie still reign on the Bench,
A terror to every man, woman, and wench ;
But when he is gaun for to tak' his last nap,
May they find a warm corner for auld Bailie Snap.

Oh, for he's the reviewer, &c.

MY BONNIE DARK-EYED DEARIE.

Words by John Pettigrew.   Music by T. S. Gleadhill,

Glasgow.
Oh, the sun has set an' gloamin' grey

Hangs owre the earth sae dreary,
The paitricks cry while on my way

To meet my dark-eyed dearie.
The angry wind amang the trees

Keeps sooching, sad, and eerie,

But what care I though cauld's the breeze

When gaun to see my dearie.

CHOrUS.
Oh, for Maggie's artless, young, and fair,

Sae mensfu', kind, and cheery ;
Through life 'twill be my only care 

To lo'e my dark-eyed dearie.
Young Maggie wears nae pridefu' air,

Nor heart that's fause an' hollow;
Her modest ways and virtues rare,

A' ither maids micht follow.
Wi' such a lassie for a wife
  Nae man could ever weary,
She'll cheer me through the vale o' life,

My bonnie dark-eyed dearie.

Oh, for Maggie's artless, &c.

ANCIENT    STIRLING.

Written by John Pettigrew.   Sung, with Immense Success,
by Hamilton Corbett.

AIR. - " The Standard on the Braes o' Mar."

Let minstrels sing of sparkling wine,

In verses high and skirling ;
Let lovers praise their maidens fine,

I'll sing of ancient Stirling.
Whaur Wallace bold, in days of old,

His faithful band he did command,

And Southern foemen couldna stand

The Scottish steel at Stirling.

King Edward did oor thistle spurn,

An' cam' to Scotland whirling,
But when he cam' to Bannockburn

It jagg'd his thooms near Stirling.
For valiant Bruce, sae slee an' crouse,
The English armies did reduce,
And Scotland's independence gained

That day near ancient Stirling.

When queenly simmer comes to reign,

An' sends king winter birling,
She seems to mak' the place her ain,

Sic braws she gies to Stirling.
When fragrant flowers au' scented thorn,
The bonnie vales an' glens adorn,

Hoo sweet upon a simmer's thorn,

To walk roon' classic Stirling.
But noo a secret I will tell,

Nor roon' the bush gang whirling,

One modest flower that I lo'e well, 
Blooms sweet in ancient Stirling.

Her form sae fair, her smile sae rare,
Her daisy face sae fu' o' grace,

Her winning ways my heart ensnare,
And mak' me cling to Stirling.

LEAVING THEE FOR EVER.

Words by John Pettigrew.   Music by Albert E. Hampson,
Edgely Villa, Southport, England.

I leave thee, dear, with scorn,

Nor treat thee, dear, with scorn,
But could I dream so fair a flower

Would ever nurse a thorn ?
I loved thee with that ardent flame,

Unqueuched by lake or river;

I love thee, maiden, still the same,

Though leaving thee for ever.

Leaving thee, yes, leaving thee,
Leaving thee for ever.

When shrubs and flowerets were in bloom

We lovingly would rove,
Where hawthorn lent its sweet perfume

A-down the scented grove;
Or when some sylvan nook we sought

By Clutha's winding river,
Could I then entertain the thought

Of leaving thee for ever.

Leaving thee, &c.

Ah, no! my heart was still with thee,

Thou cheeredst each cloudy hour ;
By night or day thou wert to me

Like dewdrops to the flower.
But false deceit and rival's pride

Command that we should sever;
May powers above thy footsteps guide,

False maid, adieu, for ever.

Leaving thee, &c.

NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC. - I am the only one of this name who has written for the Scotch or English Press, either in prose or
rhyme. A Sketch of my Life may be seen at the Mitchell Library, Ingram Street, Glasgow - See " Our Modern Scottish Poets," vol. v.
page .35. A poem in my own hand-writing may be seen in the National Burns' Monument, Kilmarnock. I have been acknowledged by
the Scotch, English, and Irish Press, and I have been the winner of some Handsome Prizes. I was also instrumental in bringing out
some of our Comic Singers with such songs as "The Lads that were reared amang the Heather," "Sandy Sourkail's Wedding,"
"Jeemie, Rin Doon to your Uncle's," "Peggy is the Lass can wear the Breeks," and fifty other favourite songs; but in the hour of
adversity the Vocalists have turned the cold shoulder to me, therefore I ask the general public to kindly patronize your humble Servant,

JOHN PETTIGREW.

PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR ONLY AT THE MINERVA PRINTING WORKS, 80 LONDON STREET, GLASGOWBONNIE
JEANIE SHAW

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box.
224 Overgate, Dundee.

I'm faur awa' frae Scotland

Nae lovin' yin is near,
 I dinna' see the auld folk

The folk I loe sae dear;
But I'll leave this foreign laun'

Wi' its scenes an' sichts sae braw;

And I'll wander hame tae Scotland
An' my bonnie Jeanie Shaw,

CHORUS.

Gie me back the days

On the flowery cathkin braes,
An' the bonnie lass I loe the best o' a',

I wad cross the ocean wide,
For tae wander by the clyde,

In the gloamin' wi' my bonnie Jeanie Shaw.

The auld hoose, an' the auld folk

Are ever in my view;
The burnie rinin' lood an' clean

I seem tae see it noo,
But I miss the bonnie heather bell

That bloomed sae faur awa',
Ah' I miss the lassie o' my heart

My bonnie Jeanie Shaw,

I dinna' see the thistle, or

The heather on the hills;
I dinna' hear the mavis sing,

Its singin' fairly fills
My heart wi' pure delicht,

So I'll up an' gang awa,'
Tae my hame in dear auld Scotland,

And my bonnie Jeanie Shaw.Sally Munro.  

Cone all you young  females  pray you attand, 
Un to those  few line that I have here pen'd;
I'll tell you the hardships I did  undergo,
With my bonny lass called Sally Munro,
James Dixon's my name, I'm a blacksmith by trade.
In the town of,Ayr I was born and bred,
From that unto Belfast I lately did go,
There I got acquinted with Sally Munro.

I  to this young lasssie a letter did send,
it was by a comrade, I thought him a friend,
instead of a friend to me, he proved a foe,
He ne'er gave my letter to sally Munro.
He told her old mother to beware of me,
He said I'd a wife in my own country ;
O, then said her old mother, now since it be so,
He ne'er shall  enjoy his young Sally  Munro.

For two months and better I never could hear.
A word from the la-s that I once loved so dear;
Until that one evening. 'twas in Sandy Row,
Its who should I m et but young  Sally   Munro.
I  told  her if she'd come to Newry  with me,
In spice; of her parents  there marrird we'd be;
She say  no objections I have now to go,
If you will prove constant  to  Sally  Munro.

Now here is my hand love and here is my heart,
Till death seperates us, we never will part,
Next day in acoach we for Newry did go,
And there I got married to Sally Munro.
Twas at Warren's Point the ship Newry lay,
With four hundred passengers ready for sea;
We then paid our passage for Quebec also,
And there I embarked with Sally Munro.

On the 14th of April, from the Point we set sail,
And bore down the channel with a pleasent gale ;
The parting of friends caus'd sometears for to flow
But I was quite happy with Sally Munro.
On the second evening there came on a  fog,
There on the Welsh  coast our fine vessel did leg;
To Caernarvon Bay, while all  were below,
I ne'er thought' twas there   I'd   part with  Sally
Munro.

At nine o"clock that night nigh Bardsey we drew,
But the mist hid both light and land from view,
The woman and children were all down below,
And amongst the rest was my Sally Munro.
Here dreading no danger we met with a shock,
Twas all on a sudden she struck upon a rock ;
Two hundred and sixty who were down below,
Were drowned and so I lost Sally Munro.

Many a man in this voyage lost his dear wife,
And childred he loved far better than life ;
I was preserved, yet salt tears do flow.
And I  sigh when I think on my Sally Munro.
It Was from her parents I took  her away,
Which will check my conscience till my d ying day
It was not to injure her that I really did so.
All my life I will mourn for my Sally Munro.Alice Grey.

She's all my fancy painted her,
She's lovely, she's divine ;
But her heart it is another's,
She never can be mine.
Yet loved I as man never loved,
A love without decay ;
Oh, my heart, my heart is breaking,
For the love of Alice Grey.
For her I climbed the mountain,
For her I stemm'd the flood ;
For her I dared the battle's strife,
And sealed it with my blood.
By night I watched her slumbers,
And tend her steps by day,
Yet scorned the heart that's breaking
For the love of Alice Grey.
I met her at the evening star,
Down in a lonely glen,
AS fair as in the youthful May,
The summer's purest gem.
I told her how I loved her,
She mildly said me nay;
Oh my heart, my heart is breaking,
For the love of Alice Grey,
Her dark brown hair is braided o'er,
A brow of spotless white ;
Her soft blue eye now languishes,
Now flashes with delight.
The hair is braided not for me.
The eye is turned away,
Yet my heart, my heart is breaking
For the love of Alice Grey.
I've sunk beneath the summer's sun,
And trembled in the blast,
But my pilgrimage is nearly done,
The weary conflict's past.
And when the green turf wraps the
grave,
May pity haply say,
Oh, his heart, his heart was broken,
For the love of Alice Grey.

J. Elder, Printer, Edinburgh.Banks of Inverary

As I walkt out one morning, adroad as I did pass,
On the banks of inverary I met a bonny lass;
Her hair hung over her shoulder broad her eyes like
	stars did shine,
On the banks of Inverary I wisht she had been mine.

I did embrace this fair maid as long as e'er I could,
Her hair hung over her shoulders broad just like to
	threads of gold,
Her hair hung over her shoulders broad, her eyes
	like drops of dew,
On the banks of lnverary I am glad to meet with you.

I pray young man give over embracing of me so,
For after kissing then comes sorrow, after that comes
	woe;
If my poor heart should be ensnared and I beguil,d
	by thee,
On the banks of Inverary i'l walk along said she.

Some people say I know you not, but I know you
	said she,
On the banks of lnverary to flatter maids like me;
For ouce I us'd to flatter maids, but now it must not be
On the banks of lnverary i've found my wife said he

I put my horn into my mouth and blew both loud
	and shrill,
Six of my serving men came out to wait their master'o
	will;
O will you not ponsenr this night my charming maid
	said he,
On the banks of Inverary my wedded wife to be,

I'l set my love on horseback, on horseback very high,
We'll go unto some parson without any more delay;
Then I wil sing songs of love until the day I die,
On the banks of Inverary where first my love I spied.

Batchelar, Printer, Long Alley.Beautiful Nell-

PRICE ONE PENNY

Copies of this favourite song can only be had in the
Poet's Box 
        
TUNE-Original.

Don't talk to me of pretty girls, of lovely women don't,
I'll never listen to a word  I won't, no, that I won't!
There's not a beauty in the land to match my peerless belle;
I'll tell you all about my love, my beautiful, my Nell.

CHORUS-Whistle.
Beautiful girl, with beautiful eyes,
Bright as the morning and blue as the skies,
Beautiful teeth and hair as well,
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful Nell.

We met, 'twas in a crowd you know, as some one somewhere sings,
The scene a ball-room, where I marked this angel wanting wings;
She floated in the gay quadrille, mazurka'd, polka'd as well,
But whirling wildly In the waltz the darling tripp'd and fell.
Spoken-Exposing the smallest portion of the heel of a Cinderella slipper; oh!

Whistle-Beautiful girl, &c.

I picked her up most tenderly, and asked if she was hurt,
Conveyed her to an ottoman, and then began to flirt;
She told me she was just eighteen, was reading Martin Tupper,
Was fond of strolls in moonlit groves, and thought she'd have some supper!

Whistle-Beautiful girl, &c.

At supper, lobster, salad, love, and chicken we discussed,
We gabbled and we gobbled as all supping lovers must;
We champagn'd, sherried, and mosell'd each time the bottle past,
Methought each smile the darling gave was lovelier than the last.

Whistle-Beautful girl, &c.

I think somehow the wine I drank had made me all amiss,
Or why, why was I fool enough to try and steal a kiss;
" Oh, some one fetch my husband, do!" she screamed out in affright;
" Married by jingo!" I exclaimed, and did a " fly by night."

Whistle-Beautiful girl, &c

A sadder and a wiser man I reached my home once more,
And, madly raving at my lot, my raven hair I tore;
I'm wretched as a man can be, and farewell, oh, farewell!
To that sweet, dear, deceiving dream, my beautiful, my Nell.

Whistle-Beautiful girl, &c.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

Letterpress Printing.

THE POET is admitted to be the Cheapest Letterpress
Printer in the city. Soiree, Concert, Subscription
Sale, and Business Cards, at Prices defying competition.
Circulars, Invoice Tops, Programmes, Society Articles,
Posters, Labels, Handbills, and every description of Letter-
press Printing, executed with taste, accuracy, and despatch.
Orders from the country receive prompt attention.

Saturday morning, May 9, 1868.BETSEY

Sec. 9.     OF

DUNDEE.

You sailors of the nation I pray you give attention,
It is no false invention as you may plainly see,
My parents of this nation they lived by cultivation,
In a rural habitation, near the banks of sweet Dundee.

When young I took the ocean, for riches and promotion,
With an inclination strange countries to see,
But the wars now being over I was discharged at Dover,
Then I returned a rover to the banks of Sweet Dundee.

To rambling I inclined my parents seldom minded,
For they by love were blinded and partial unto me,
Fair maids I always courted, from nymph to nymph resorted,
My time I spent in courting on the banks of sweet Dundee.

Till at length a lovely maid has  my youthful heart betrayed,
Beneath that fragrant shade where I spied  that lovely she,
Without deliberation I asked her habitation,
In accents sweet she answered. I'm Betsey of Dundee.

In secret long we courted while sweet birds round us sported,
The valleys were our chambers we found them most secure,
Her father coming by us beneath the shade he spied us,
And strangely he did use us on the banks of sweet Dundee.

He seized this charming fair by the ringlets of her hair,
She fell into despair set my very heart in flames,
He savs I've information your going to leave this nation,
And drive to desperation your character and same.

She said if he had gold we would never be controlled,
You  would us both enfold with the greatest harmony ;
If its your determination to cause a separation,
In spite of all relations with him I'll leave Dundee.

He says, if your inclined with an honest upright  mind,
This night you shall be joined —so come along with me,
What pleasure did surround me, and nuptial hands soon
	crowned me,
And Hymens chains soon bound me to sweet Betsey of
	Dundee.

294BLEACHING LASS

OF

KELVINHAUGH

Copies of the popular song can laways be had at the poet
BOX 192 & 190 Overgate Dundee.

Air.—Lord Bateman's Daughter.
PRICE ONE PENNY.

I went out one summer's evening,

To view the banks of sweet Kelvinhaugh:
Twas there I met a wee bleacher lassie,

Her cheeks like roses and her skin like snaw,

Says I, " My lassie, where are you going,

Or what do you do, 1 should like for to know? 
She says,  'Kind sir, I'm but bleacher
In Cochrane's field at Keluinhaugh,"

He says, " My lassie, will you go with me,

An' I'll buy you new gowns an' diamonds braw?"

No, kind sir, I'd rather tarry

A wee bleacher lassie o' Kelvenhaugh.'

She says, " Young man, it's the truth I tell you,

I have a sweetheart that's far awa".
An' for seven long years I'll wait upon him—

I'll ne'er forsake him that's far awa..'

He says, " My lassie oh. you are cruel!

I wish your fair face I ne'er had saw,
For my heart 'tis bleeding, both night and morning.

For the bleacher lassie o' Kelvinhaugh "                   

Oh lassie do you remember,

When the big ship sailed by yon bromie law,

And the sailer ladies they all admired,

The bonny bleacher laas oh sweet Kelvinhaugh-        

Oh laddie laddie , I do well remember,

When yon big ship sailed by yen bromie law,           

And the sailer landies they all admired,

And my own true love was among the crew,             

Here is a ring oh a pure gold ring,

And on you're finger it shall go,                                

And this very day you're a captains lady,                    

For being true to your laddie though away.NOTHING AT ALL.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

This very popular comic love song is now one of the Poet's
vast collection. The Poet's Temple of the Muse is one of
the grandest establishments of the kind, in point of intellect-
ual richness and charming variety, containing, as it does, songs
of every class, and on every subject—sentimental, love, comic,
sea, Jacobite, negro, and all other descriptions. Copies can
only be had in the Poet's Box, St.Andrew's Lane, Glasgow.

Air- Things I don't like to see.

In Derry-down Dale when I wanted a mate,
I went with my daddy a-courting to Kate ;
With my nosegay so fine, and my holiday clothes,
My hands in my pockets, a courting I goes ;
The weather was cold, and my bosom was hot,
My heart in a gallop, my mare in a trot ;
Now I was so bashful, and loving withal,
My tongue stuck to my mouth, I said nothing at all.
But fol, de rol.

When I got to the door, I look'd sheepish and glum.
The knocker I held 'twixt my finger and thumb,
Tap went the rapper, and Kate showed her chin,
She chuckl'd and duckl'd, I bow'd and went in.
Now I was as bashful as bashful could be,
And Kitty, poor soul, was as bashful as me,
So I bow'd and she grinn'd, and I let my hat fall,
Then I smil d, scratch'd my head, and said nothing at all
But fol, de rol.

If bashful was I, no less bashful the maid,
She simper'd and blush'd, and her apron strings play'd;
Till the old folks impatient to have the thing done,
Agreed little Kitty and I should be one,
In silence we young folks soon nodded consent,
Hand in hand to the church to be married we went,
Where we answered the parson in voices so small,
Love, honour, obey, and a-nothing at all.
But fol, de rol,

But mark what a change in the course of a week ;
Our Kate left of blushing, I boldly could speak,
Could toy with my deary, laugh loud at a jest,
She could coax, too, and fondle as well as the best;
Asham'd of past follies, we often declar'd,
To encourage young folks, who at wedlock are scar'd,
For if once to their aid some assurance they call,
You may kiss and be married, and a-nothing at all.
But fol, de rol.

                                                     
LIST OF NEWEST SONGS.

Happy-go-Lucky
Camlachie Militia
Rattling Blades of Lancashire
Long Barney
Kate Kearney with the Silver Eye
The Irish Jaunting Car
West End Park
Glasgow Courtship
Bane Kale
The Mason's Word
Charley Napier
I never takes more than my Whack
The Russian Host
Bonny Walks of Glasgow Green
Whisky in the Jar
The Gill Stoup
Cauld  Kale
Mister Peter Paterson
Bonny Nelly Brown
Lilly Dale
Forbies M'Kenzie
Dorran's Ass
The Scolding Wife
Jack-a-Tar
The Wonderful Man.
The Red, Red Rose
The Widow's Wonders
New Year
I wonder who's to be my Wife
I wonder who's to be my Man
The Charge of our Brave Highlandmen
Creep before you Gang
Paddy and the Butter
A Bailie in his Gups
The Blackest of Blacksmiths
Whack for the Emerald Isle
The Dairy Maids of Hundred Acre Hill
Easter Snow
Anne M'Ghe
The Lost Child
The Glenhead Tragedy
And a great host of other New Songs 
Saturday, November 24, 1855.PRETTY ROSALINE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular song can always be had in the
Poet's Box
All kinds of Music supplied to order on moderate terms.

Tune-Original

'Twas near the banks of bonny Tweed,
And in a flowery dell,
A rustic cottage reared its head,
The traveller knew it well;
For there a little lassie dwelt,
As fair as beauty's queen-
Not one so rare, not one so fair
As pretty Rosaline.

She was so bright, so gay, and light,
So meek and mild her mien,
Heaven's own lustre lit the eye
Of pretty Rosaline.
An aged mother-feeble-blind-
Was Rosa's only care;
Never child was half so kind,
Or parent half so dear.

To get her food she'd spin and knit,
Wi' cheerful heart, I ween,
And blind old Jenny fondly loved
Her pretty Rosaline.
Oh! how gay at close o' day,
They wandered o'er the green;
Jenny's feeble steps were led
By pretty Rosaline.

A cruel lord, so proud and base.
Sought shelter in the dell;
Enraptured with her bonny face,
He vowed-she trusted-fell!
Betray'd, despis'd, her spirits droop'd,
No more she sought the green,
But like a lily in its bloom
Died pretty Rosaline.

Her mother dear had none to cheer-
She died that very e'en-
And blind old Jenny sleeps beside
Her pretty Rosaline.

Just Published, APOLLO'S HANDBOOK; or, the Poet's Box' GRAND CATALOGUE
of Songs, Stories, Recitations, &c. Price 1½d.; post free, 1d. To Singers,
Elocutionists, and Story Tellers (amateur or professional), this
complete list will prove most useful, being the key to a mine of
poetry, ballad literature, and humour. No one should be
without it.

 Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

Catalogue of Newest Songs' and Recitations.

Break it gently to my mother
Biscuit van
Beautiful Nell
Beautiful for ever
Bonny banks of Clyde
Battle of Chevy Chase
Colin Dulap
Coal Jock
Chargs of the light brigade


Lodging house cat

Lines on the dreadful mur-
der of Mr Glass

Lines on the death of the
Rev. Thomas Flood

My dear native home

Many changes have I seen

May queen

Mowing of the hay
Saturday, Dec. 23,1871.
SWEETHEART MAY.

Copies of this Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter
Street, Dundee.
New Songs out every week. Price One Penny.

Long ago an angel I knew ,if ever a one was seen,
She was a bonnie sweet child of eight, and I was just eighteen :
And every night she'd sit on my knee, her arms round my neck and
say
I love you, I love you, and when I grow big, now promise to marry
your May.

Chorus—Sweetheart May, when you grow up one day,
You may marry another and my love betray ;
But I'll wait for you, and then we shall see
What you will do when I ask you to marry me.

I went one day to countries away, to lands over sea to tread, 
Trials and troubles of life I met, as years lay on my head ;
But every night I'd think of that child, her smile and her young
love-sigh—
I longed just to see her grown up sweet eighteen, my May of the
days gone by.

I came back again, and I found her at last to a beautiful woman
grown,
I asked her to think of those old happy days, but the memory was
mine alone;
I stood there before her, I sang the old song, she couldn't recall it,
I begged her to try ;
She said, I forget you ; besides we must part, to-morrow I'm going
to be married ; good-bye.

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
That can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter St., Dundee :

Eileen Alannah
Kathleen Mavourneen
Killarney's Lakes
Barney, take me home
Jamie Foyers
I'll take you home again,
Kathleen
Ever of thee
Will yon love me when I'm old?
A Man's a Man for a' that
A Guid New Year to ane an' a'
Banks of Sweet Dundee
My Boat shall come again
Robin's gone to sleep with Mary
Mary, the Maid of the Don
The Soldier's Letter; or, Is it
true, too true?
The Swanee River; or, The
Old Folks at Home
The Country I'm leaving behind
Jeannie Shaw
Tom Bowling
When Bells are softly ringing
Wait till the Clouds go byTHE ANSWER TO

BURN'S LOVELY JEAN.

Printed by T.BIRT.10, Great. St Andrew-Street
wholesale and retail,      Seven Dials, London.
Country Order's punctually attended to.

LONG absent in the wars I've been,
For her whom I love best,
Returned once more to my native shore,
Love sweet then fill'd my breast;
The lassie fair to me so dear,
She constant do remain,
My love restore to me once more,
I mean, sweet lovely Jean.

The former vows will be renew'd,
That passed between us two,
Thro' foreign parts long time I loved,
Since first I ganged ama',
Of all the beautious maids I've seen,
In Holland, France, or Spain,
Charming and fair none can compare,
To my sweet lovely Jean.

Farewell sweet days of early life,
When first I went to love,
By the green side of happy Clyde,
Happy with her I love ;
Twas honour called me from her arms,
And left her to complain,
Honour and fame conduct me home,
Once mair to my sweet Jean.

But whither is my Jenny gone,
Where does my lassie stray ?
Shall I find my love in yonder grove,
Where the birds sing on each spray?
You shepherds gay, tell me, I pray,
If this fair maid you've seen,
By the Banks o'Clyde I kept my bride,
I mean sweet lovely Jean.

'Tis thro' the glen I passed along,
Near to her dwelling place,
My lassie sweet, came me to meet,
From  her I  turned my face.
It was to hide the flowing tide,
That swell'd within my clen,
I could not forget hat to shed,
A tear wi' joy to see my Jean.



She says, you're welcome home to me,
Your absence love I've mourn'd.
My heart's at rest, no maid so bless'd,
Since Sandy has return'd.                                
It's in the town our joy's to crown,
To kirk has fled my Queen,
My toils are o'er, I'll part no more,
With ray sweet lovely Jean.The Birken

TREE

O lassie gin ye wad think it right,
To gang wi' me this very night
And cuddle till the morning light
By a' the lave unseen, O

An' ye shall be my dearie,
My ain dearest dearie,
An' ye shall be my dearie,
Gin ye meet me at e'en, O,

I daurna for my mammy gae,

She locks the door and keeps the key;
And e'en and morning charge me,

And a' about the men, O.

She says they're a' deceivers,
Deceivers, deceivers,
She says they're a' deceivers,
We canna trust tae ane, O,

O never mind your mammy's yell,

Nae doubt she's met your dad hersel',
And should she flyte, you may her tell,
She's often done the same, O.

O lassie gie's your hand on't,
Your bonnie milk. white hand on't
O lassie gie's your hand on't,
And scorn to lie your lane, O,

O lad, my hand canna gae,

But aiblins  may steal the key,
And meet you at the birken tree,
That stands beyond the glen, o,
But dinna lippen, laddie,
cann promise, laddie,
But dinna lippen, laddie
In case canna win, O.

NOW  he's gane to the birken tree,

In hopes his true love there to see;


And wha cam tripping o'er the lee.

But he is sweet, dearest jean, O.

         And she clinked down beside him,

Beside him, beside him,

And  she clinked down beside him,

Upon the grass sea green, O.

I'm overjoyed wi' raptures noo,

Cried he, and pree'd her cherry mou";
But Jeanie ne'er had eause to rue
That night upon the green, O.

For she has got her Johnny,
Her sweet and loving Johnny,
For she has got her Johnny,
And Johnny's got her Jean, O.

191AWFUL CRUELTY!

Or, the Life of Miss AGNES RAE.

THE particulars of the Life and Death of Miss AGNES RAE, a gentleman's
daughter, belonging to near Dunfermline, who was betrayed and seduced by
a young gentleman ; she became pregnant to him ; his love turned to hatred
towards her, and ordered his servants to turn her out of doors ; she was then
reduced to poverty and obliged to beg alms from door to door, and on Mon-
day last was found in a most deplorable condition, lying dead in a byre be-
longing to Mr Blackburn, between Dunfermline and Kinross: with a copy
of a beautiful and interesting Letter, and a copy of Verses, which were found
in her pocket-book, written in her own hand-writing.

" ONCE the dearest but now the crueliest of men—if my exhausted spirit
would support my trembling hand, whilst I write a few lines to ease my broken
heart, it would be the last office I should require them to do, then may they
leave me; then may I find in the grave; a retreat from the scorn of men. How
is my gold become dim ; and my most fine gold become dross. I do not com-
mand you, by the awful name of virtue, to accuse you of ingratitude; ah ! no,
the scene is.entirely changed, you have robbed me of the brightest gem in the
female character, and now I come as a humble supplicant—is this possible-
am I awake, or did I dream ? ah! poor girl, think not what you were, but what
you are, how can I rest from calling to remembrance these days of innocence
and peace, when, with a serene countenance and sincere heart, I could look up
to heaven and beg the God of purity would be my protector; but ah ! how I
am changed, how is my virtue faded, how such guilt filled my soul, while blushes
cover my face; sad reflections on my present state makes me meditate on the
future, which opens so tremendous a scene to my view.

" Now whither shall I fly to find relief? If I fly to my friends, who were
once all my comfort, they, bathed in tears, cry out— 'You have brought our
gray hairs with sorrow to the grave' If to get one moment's ease I wander in-
to the fields, every flower I see, seems to say— 'We are pure.' Thus is nature
armed against me, and on whose account ? I seem to be forsaken by heaven and
earth on your account, who strove to gain my affections and became master of
them, and now you triumph over me, laugh at me for trusting your honour,
and putting confidence in your word ! ( ) hypocrisy, how couldst thou wear so
winning a form ? Generosity, where art thou fled? Honour, hast thou for-
saken the human race ? look on my distress ! O my God, despise me not! O
my friends, pray for me ! my distressed parents forgive me ! then may the cold
grave receive me in its peaceful recesses, where my shame may be buried in
eternal oblivion. May you, in the hour of death, find consolation from your
God and Judge, which you have denied to your                    AGNES RAE."

You females all, both far and near,
Attend to what a friend doth say,
I'll make you weep my tale to hear,
For all my joy has fled away.
I was with education bless'd,
The best my friends could find,
They had me like a princess drest,
And nothing then disturb'd my mind
I was an only daughter dear,
My father's joy, my mother's pride,
And promised fair for many a year,
But oh alas ! my mother died.
When she upon her death-bed lay,
Her looks & words did pierce my heart,
Methinks she had much more to say,
Alas, her spirit did depart.
My father grieved his strength away,
Six months did close his mortal life.
This was to me a mournful day,
They laid him by his loving wife.
My uncles they my guardians were,
Also another of our friend ;
They kept me in great awe and fear,
Until I gain'd my wicked ends.
When sable night had clad us round,
And silent at the midnight hour,
A chance to escape then I found,
And gently clos'd the mansion door.
Where a young gentleman did wait,
My youthful heart he did trepan,
All at my father's garden gate,
He had his coach and waiting man.
He promised I his bride should be,
 And nothing should control my will,
With every pleasure I could see,
I should enjoy me to my fill.

Allured by his beguiling tongue,
And arrayed in gay and rich attire,
Not thinking I was doing wrong,
Eloped with this gallant squire.
At length to him with child I prov'd,

He gave me language sharp and keen,
He hated me, who once he loved,

And never more by me was seen.
His servants turned me to the door,

Forlorn, disconsolate and distressed,
'Twas now I thought upon the poor,

When I had got no place of rest.
Along the purling stream I'd walk,

Thro' lonely groves and shady bowers,
No one I'd get with me to talk,

Or pass away the mourning hours.
[ hope, young maidens, you will hear,,

And give some thought to what I say,
To Pride Destruction's very near,

Let prudence guard your slip'ry way.
A flattering tongue always despise,

May virtue guide your steps aright,
Then to perfection may you rise,

In pleasure spend the day and night.
A blooming flower of twenty years,

Just in the prime of life should be;
My body to the grave they'll bear,

And not a tear be shed for me.
More I would say, but oh, the pain

Of death, I feel the mortal dart;
I hope in heaven my soul shall reign.

When death stops this beating heart.
She's clos'd her mortal scene below,

From grief and trouble she is free;
She's gone the road we all must go,

From time unto eternity.

Kirkwood, Printer.Awful  Cruelty;

OR, THE LIFE OF

ELISABETH WATSON.

An Account of the Life and Death of Miss ELISABETH WATSON, a Gentleman's
Daughter, who was betrayed and seduced by a young Gentleman; she became
pregnant to him—his love soon turned to hatred towards her, and he ordered his
servants to turn her out of doors. She was then reduced to poverty, and obliged
to beg from door to door; and on Monday last, was found in a most deplorable
condition, lying dead in a byre near mid Calder . together with a copy of an inter-
esting Letter, and also a Copy of Verses, which were found in her pocket-book, in
her own hand writing.

Copy of the Letter.

"ONCE the dearest, now cruelest of men, if my exhausted spirits would support
trembling hands, whilst I write a few lines to ease my broken heart, it would be the
last office I should require them to do—then may they leave me— then may I find
in the grave a retreat from the scorn of men. How is my gold become dim, and my
most fine gold become dross ? I do not mean to attempt, by the awful name of virtue
to accuse you of ingratitude; ah, no, the scene is entirely changed—you have rob-
bed me of the brightest gem in the female character, and now I come as an humble
supplicant. Is it possible? am I awake? or did I dream? Ah, poor girl, think not
what you were, but what you are. How can I rest from calling to remembrance these
days of innocence and peace, when, with serene countenance and sincere heart, I
could look up to heaven, and beg the God of purity to be my protector; but ah, how
I am changed—how is my virtue faded-—how such guilt filled my soul, while blushes
cover my face ; sad reflections on my present state makes me meditate on the future
which opens so tremendous a scene to my view.

"Now whither shall I fly to find relief? If I fly to my friends, who were once all
my comfort, they, bathed in tears, cry out,—You have brought our grey hairs with
sorrow to the grave. If to get a moment's ease, I wander into the fields, every flower
I see seems to say, We are pure. Thus is nature armed against me, and on whose
account I seem to be forsaken by heaven and earth on your account, who strove
to gain my affections and become masters of them, and now you triumph over me—
laugh at me for trusting your honour, and puting confidence in your word. O hypo-
cricy how couldst thou wear so shining a form ? Generosity, where art thou fled ?
Honour, hast thou forsaken the human race ? Look on my distress, O, my God !
despise me not. O, my friends pray for me—My distressed parents forgive me,
Then may the cold grave receive me in it's peaceful recesses, where my shame may
be buried in eternal oblivion. May you, in the hour of death, find consolation from
your God and Judge, which you haqe denied to the wretched

"ELISABETH WATSON

A Copy of the Verses.
	
You females all, both far and near.              Allured by his beguiling tongue,
Attend to what a friend doth say ;                And arrayed in gay and rich atire,
I'll make you weep, my tale to hear,             Not. thinking I was doing wrong,
For all my joy has fled away.                      Elophd with this gallant squire.

I was with education bless'd,                        At length to him with child I proved,
The best my friends could find ;                  He gave me language sharp and keen,
They had me like a princess dress'd,             He hated me, who once he loved,
And nothing then disturb'd my mind.           And never more by me was seen.

I was an only daughter dear,                       His servants turned me to the door,
My father's joy, my mother's pride;             I orlorn, disconsolate and distress'd
And promised fair for many a year,              "T was now I thought upon the poor,
But, oh, alas ! my mother died.                     When I had no place of rest

When she upon her death bed lay,              Along the purling stream I'd walk,
Her looks and words did pierce my heart;    Thro' lonely groves and shady bowers;
Methinks she had much more to say,            No one I'd get with me to talk,
Alas her spirit did depart.                            Or pass away the mourning hours.

My father grieved his heart away,                I hope, young maidens, you will hear,
Six months did close his mortal life ;             And give some thought to what I say,
This was to me a mournful day—                To Pride Destructions very near,
They laid him by his loving wife.                 Let Prudence guard your slipp'ry way.

My uncles they my guardians were,             A flattering tongue always despise—
Also another of our friends;                         May Virtue guide your steps aright—
They kept me in great awe and fear,            Then to perfection may you rise—
Untill I gain'd my wicked ends.                  In pleasure spend the day and night.

When sable night had clad us round,           A blooming flower of twenty years
And silent was the midnight hour,               Just in the prime of life should be;
A chance to escape then I found,                  My body tr the grave they'll bear,
And gently closed the mansion door.            And not a tear be sheg for me.

Where a young gentleman did wait—           More I would say, but O, the pain
My youthful heart he did trepan ;                Of death, I feel the mortal dart;
And at my father's garden gate,                   I hope in heaven my soul shall reign,
He had his coach and waiting man.              When death stops this beating heart.

He promised I his bride should be,              She's clos'd her mortal scene below—
And nothing should controul my will            From grief and trouble she is free—-
With every pleasure I could see,                 She's gone the road we all must go,
I should enjoy me to my fill.                       From time unto eternity.

Printed for FRANCIS M'CARTNEYC O P Y

Of  A

CURIOUS LOVE LETTERS

FROM A                                                 

Gentleman to a Lady.          

MADAM,

The great love and tenderness I have hitherto expressed for you
is false. And I now feel that my indifference towards you
increases porportionably every day. And the more I see you
the more you appear rediculous, and an object of contempt, and
the more I feel disposed, inclined, and finally determined, to
hate you.—Believe me I naver had the least inclination to
offer   yon my hand and   heart------Our last   conversation  has
I assure you, left a wretched insipidity, which has by no means
possessed me with the most exalted opinion of your character.
Yes, madam, and you will much oblige me, by avoiding me.
And if evar we are united, I shall experiencs nothing but the
fearful hatred of my parents, added to an everlasting dis-
pleasure of living with you. Yes, madam, I think sincerely -
You need not put yourself to the smallest trouble or send or
write me an  answer------Adieu.    And   believe me that I  are
so a verse to you, that it is really impossible I shuld ever be.

		Madam,
	Your sffectionate  lever till death,

				W. GOFF.
To Miss M. Wi--------ms.

This curious and very ingenious  love letter dropped form the
pocket of a young gentleman who is well known in the sporting
circle, was picked up by a matron of this town, and would in all
probability have been for ever in oblivion, had it not been given
to the present publisher, who determined to have it printed for the
amusement and information of all young bachelors, There are
two ways-of reading it; her father compelled his daughter to show
him all letters sent to her—the unsuspecting father reads straight
forward, but the daughter (having the clew) reads the 1st. 3rd.
and 5th. lines, and so on , then the contrast will be discovered.Hieroglyphic
LOVE LETTER.

REAL COPY of a CURIOUS LOVE LETTER, chiefly in HIEROGLY-
PHIC CHARACTERS, written by a Love-struck Painter of this City to the
object of his affections, a sprightly Nursery-maid in a respectable family re-
siding at the west end of the Town.

Isa a,

Trusting the goodness of  your will ex-
have at last n
cuse my presumption, have at last n
duced to offer  my , dreading the
farther  petition of a certain one 'd
maker of                  who loves his  and his

 above  other things on earth.
My love,  lieve not the  y
stories he may have told , but meet me at
your master's           on day night, at eight

o'clock, and, in a -light walk   we will ar-
range matters for joining our  and our

 together,—& which         trust  will

 ready for on Friday week.

In the fond  of your kind  pliance
 am, till then,



My     Isa a,

Your ever affectionate Lover,

  IBALd  WIL 

N. B.—  fully will it ever  my study

to make your  at  times boil brown.



largest and Best  collection  SANDERSON, Printer, Edinburgh.  Histories,patters, Ballads, 
 to be had in scotland, of                                                                  Songs, &c &c &cLOVE LETTER.

Hast thou no pity for my woes?
Dost thou at me turn up thy nose ?
I'll make my declaration first,
So read straight forward and be curst,—
But if your heart to me incline,
Oh ! jump o'er every other line !

The great affection I have hitherto expressed for you
is false, and I now feel that my indifference towards you
increases every day, and the more I see you, the more
you appear ridiculous in my eyes, and an object of contempt.
I feel inclined, and in all respects disposed and determined, to
hate you. Believe me, I never in the least intended to
offer you my hand. Our last conversation has, I assure you,
left a tedious and wretched insipidity, which by no means has
possessed me with the most exalted opinion of your character;
your inconstant temper would always make me miserable,
and if ever we are united, I should experience nothing but
the fearful hatred of my parents, added to the everlasting dis-
pleasure in living with you. I have indeed a faithful heart
to bestow ; but, however, I do not wish you to imagine that it is
at your service, for it is impossible I could give it to one more
inconstant and capricious than yourself, and one who is less
capable to do honour to my choice and to my family.

Yes,                  , I beg and desire you will be persuaded that
I think sincerely, that you will do me the greatest pleasure
to avoid me. I shall readily excuse your taking the trouble
to return an answer to this: for your letters are always full of
nonsense and impertinence, and have not the least shadow of
wit or good sense. Adieu, and believe truly that I am
so averse to you that it is impossible I should ever be,
	Your affectionate lover,

MENZIES, Printer, Lawnmarket, Edinburgh.THE BANKS OF             

INVERURY.

EARLY one summer morning along as I did pass,
On the banks of Inverury I met a bonny lass,
Her hair hung o'er her shoulders broad, and her eyes like        
stars did shine,                                                                 
On the banks of Inverury I wish that she were mine.

I did embrace this fair maid as fast as ere I could ;                 
Her hair hung o'er her shoulders broad, like to the thread
of gold;
Her hair hung o'er her shoulders broad, and her eyes like
drops of dew,
On the banks of Inverury I will walk along with you.

She said young man forbear embracing of me so,                   
For after kissing there comes wooing and after wooing
woe,
If my poor heart should be ensnar'd and I beguiled should
be,                                                                                  
On the banks of Inverury I might walk along said she.      

He said my pretty fair maid the truth I ne'er deny,
On the banks of Inverury twelve maids beguiled have I,       
But I will not begin this night my charmer said he,
On the brnks of Inverury my wedded wife you'll be.

He put his horn to his mouth he blew both loud and shrill,
Till thirty-six well armed men were at their masters will,
Said he I used to flaster maids, but now it must not be,
On the banks of Inverury I have found my wife said he.

He set this pretty fair maid on horse-back very high,
Unto some parson we will go, and that immediately,
Where we will sing the songs of love until the day we die,
To the praise of Inverurys banks where first I did her spy.A NEW SONG, CALLED,

THE SAILOR

And Farmer's Daughter.

A Sailor courted a farmer's daughter,
That lived convenient to the Isle of man,
But mark good people what followed after,
A long time courting against their will.

A long time courting and still discoursing,
Of things concerning the Occean wide!
He says, my darling at our first meeting,
If you'll consent I'll make you my bride,

It's as for Sailors, I don't admire them,
Because they sail to so many parts,     
The more we court, the more they slight us,
Leaves us behind them with broken hearts,

O never fear, my dearest dear,
I never intend to serve you so,
But I have once more to cross the Ocean,
You know my darling, that I must go.

But the news being carried unto his mother,
Before he step'd one foot on board;
That he was courting a farmer's daughter,
That friends or parents could not afford

Like one destracted his mother ran ;
Saying, if you don't forsake her,
And your bride not make her,
I shall disown you to be my son,

O mother dear your in a passion,
And I am sorry you have spoke too late,
For don't you remember at your first begining
My father married you a servant maid.

So do not despise her I mean to raise her,
Just as my father to you hath done;
She's mine, I like her, and my bride,
You may disown me to be your son.

But when she heard of the grevious story,
That she to sea with her love might go;
As for my fortune love, I pray don't mind it,
I might have money and no one know.

Money or no my love, you are my lot my love,
You are my friend and affectionate still,
For I'll take you, and my bride I'll make you,
Let my old mother say what she will.THE
WANDERER.

O cease a while ye winds to blow,

O  cease ye murmuring streams to flow!
Be still ! be hush'd every rude noise !

I  think I hear my true love's voice.

Here is the brook, the rock, the tree,-
Hark ! hark a voice ! don't you think' tis

he ?
It is not ho, and the night's coming on,

0  where's my lovely wanderer gone.

Loudly I call'd to male him hear,
It is I that call - my love - my dear !
Where can he rove ? where can he stray?

I  fear my love has lost his way !

The moon behind a cloud is lost,
In every crag appears a ghost !
The lightning's gleam if seen no more,
Whilst the loud awful thunders roar.

M'Intosh, Printer, 96 King Street Calton.Sally Munro.

Come all yon young females I pray yon attend,
Unto these fow line that I have here pen'd;
I'll tell you the hardships I did undergo,
With my bonny lass called Sally Munro,
James Dixon's my name,I'm a blacksmith by rade
In the town of Ayr I was born and brod,
From that unto Belfast I lately did go,
There I got acquainted with Sally Munro.

I to this young lassie a letter did send,
It was by a comrade, I thought him a friend,
Instead of a friend to me, he proved a foe,
He ne'er gave my letter to Sally Munro.
He told  her old mother to beware of me,
He said I'd a wife in ray own country;
O, then said her old mother, now since it be so,
He ne'er shall enjoy his young Sally Munro.
For two months and better I never could hear,
A word from the lass that I once loved so dears
Until that one evening, 'twas in Sandy Row,
It s who should I meet bat young Sally Munro.
I told her if she'd come to Newry with me,
In spite of her parents there marrird we'd be
She says, no objections I have now to go,
if you will prove constant to Sally Munro.

Now here is my hand love and here is my hear
Till death seperates us, we never will part;
Next day in a coach we for Newry did go,
And there I got married to Sally Manro.
Twasat Warren's Point the ship Newry lay,
With four hundred passengers ready for sea;
We then paid oar passage for Quebec also,
And there I embarked with Sally Manro.

On the 14th of April, from the Point we set sa
And bore down the channel with a pleasent gale ;
The parting of friends caus'd some tears for to flow
Bull was quite happy with Sally Muaro.
On the second evening there came on a fog,
There on the Welsh coast our fine vessel did [   ]
To Caernarvon bay, while all were below,
I ne'er thought'twas there I'd part with Sally
Monro.

At nine o'clock that night nigh Bardsey we drew,
But the mist hid both light and land from view,   '
The woman and children were all down below,
And amongst the rest was my Sally Munro.
Here dreading no danger we met with a shock,
Twas all on a sudden she struck upon a rock ;
Twe hundred and sixty who were down below,
Were drowned and so I lost Sally Munro.

Many a man in this voyage lost his dear wife,
And children he loved far better than life;
I was preserved, yet salt tears do flew,
And I sigh wben I think on my Sally Munro.
It Wae from her parents I took her away,
Which will cheak my conscience till my dying day.
It was not to injure her that! really did so.
All my life I will mourn for my Sally Munro.William and Herriet.

There was a rich gentleman in Glasgow did dwell,
He had a lovely daughter a sailor loved well;
Because she was handsome and loved him so true,
Her father he wanted her to bid him adieu.

O  father, dear father, I'm not so inclined,
To drive my young sailor quite out of my mind ;
O, then unruly daughter confined you shall be,
And I'll send your young sailor far over the sea.

It's she was sitting in her bower one day,
Awaiting for William she was hard for to say ;
She sang like a linnet and appeared like a dove,
And the song that she sang was coneerning her love,

She had not long been there when William pass'd by,
And on his dearest Herriet he east a longing eye;
He says your cruel father with mine has agreed,
For to send me a sailing far over the sea.

She says my sweet William with you I will go,
Since my cruel father has served me so ;
I will pass for your shipmate and do what I can,
With my William I'll venture like a, jolly young man.

She dress'd like a sailor as near as could be,
And they both went together across the salt sea ;
They both went together to some foreign shore,
But they never did to Glasgow returned any more.

For as they were a sailing by some foreign shore,
The wind from the ocean began for to roar ;
The ship she went down to the bottom of the sea,
So cast upon an island was William and she.

They rambled together some place for to spy,
They had nothiug for to eat, and nowhere to lie ;
So they lay down together upon the cold ground,
While the waves and the tempest madea terrible sound,

Then hunger came on them and death drawmg nigh,
They folded together intending to die ;
What pair could bo bolder to bid this world adieu,
So now they are mouldering like lovers so true.