JAMES  McMOURTRIE

Died 24th September, 1889,

        Aged 77 Years.



Right sorry were we all to hear of James McMourtrie's death,
Few cleverer, worthier, gude old chaps has death deprived of breath:
Well known as "Old Mortality" through all the country side,
He kept old gravestones in repair within a district wide.



The inscriptions which he cut were always distinct and neat,
And few the sculptors were who could Mourtrie in this way beat:
Nor yet confined he his art to monuments alone,
But engraved on copper, silver, wood, and steel as well as stone.



Full many a village sign board his handiwork displays,
His stamps for marking sacks and tools will be used many days;
When at the smithy cronies meet and have a social crack,
They will talk abont him and will say," a clever man was Mac."



A king 'mongst tradesmen too he  was, all his work tools he made,
(And of none except a smith can the selfsame be said,)
He made machines to restrike files and iron to caukers make,
But of none of these inventions did he advantage take.



A thinking, handy, plodding man-a genius scarce known-
Who had he been placed better, as an artist would have shone-
He quietly slipped through a life of seventy seven years,
Content with little while he lived within this vale of tears.



Riches he never coveted, nor for them ever strove,
For such is not the object of the true artist's love;
For hours he'd labour eidently within some auld kirkyard,
Then lay him down and rest a while upon the fresh green sward.



His fare was of the humblest, and often little more
Than bread and Cheese and water composed his whole store;
But when weariness, or grief, or care his honest heart oppressed,
He would take a gill of whiskey, saying," let it be the best."



Who on his lowly gravestone will cut McMourtrie's name,
And thus unto posterity preserve friend James's fame ?
That it should be forgotten, pity and shame would be,
For well he earned his well known name of " Old Mortality."

D.S.A New Scotch Ballad:

C A L L'D

BOTHWEL BRIDGE.

OR,

Hamilton's HERO.

To the Tune of  Fortune my Foe.

1.

WHen valiant Bucklugh charg'd his Foes,
And put the Rebel Scots to flght,
Full many a Gallant Squire arose
And rush'd into the Fight.

2.

From sturdy Mars they all did spring,
And by the Dint of Spur and Switch
Could make their Steeds to kick and fling,
And leap o're Enemy like Ditch.

                                3.

But Io ! amidst this furious Train
Of matchless Wights, appeared one
With Courage and with Prowess main
As ever yet was shown.
4.

Of Visage dark as day of Doom,
Most pittifully rent and tore,
Shews him a Warrier in the Womb
That Wounds receiv'd e're he was bore,

                                 5.

His Breast all Steel, of Temper tuff,
And Falstaff's Belly deckt with Charms,
VVith Brandon's Head, all clad in Buff,
Secure from Scottifh Arms.
6.

Full fix Foot deep in Stature he,
A goodly fight for to behold,
of Parentage and Pedigree
Most wondrous to unfold.

7.

Not gen'rous Whore, of better kind,
Nor Stallion stout, of Mettle higher
Than is the fierce undaunted mind
Of this our lofty Squire.

8.

But, that you may believe, his Race
Was such as we dare brag on,
Know to St. George he Kinsman was,
and Son and Heir to th' Dragon.

9.

From that bold Knight he Valour gain'd,
And from the Venom of this Syre
The gift of swelling he obtain'd,
And eke of spitting Fire.

10.

At two Months Age, from Mothers Paps,
He suck'd out Bullets 'stead of Milk;
Which rowling in his Warlike Chaps
They turn'd as soft as Silk.

11.

With this rank Food he fed some years
Till he so strong a Stomack got,
That he could swallow down whole Spears
And mumble Canon-shot.

12.

Did he but hear those Furies roar
He'd rush into the heat of Battel,
And bowze Combustion from the Bore
As'twere from mouth of Sucking-bottle.

                13.

No Armour needful was in fight,
Nor car'd he for the Pow'rful shield;
He valu'd Courage not a Doit                 
To man him in the dreadful Field.

14.

For let the whiffling Bullets stray,
'Tis no matter whether thick or thinner,
His only business was to pray
They'd shoot him down his Dinner.



15.

THus dyetted, 'gainst Scottish Loon,
He proudly troopt by Monmouth's side,
Accouter'd with a Knife and Spoon
Which all their Arms defi'd .

16.

But as the Duke right manfully
March'd on his stubborn Foes to meet,
He all besh------the Shot which he
So likely was to eat.

17.

Behind  his Grace he tamely slunk,
(Suppos'd) from Wounds his Breech to keep:
And at each thundring Volley shrunk
 Like Hog-Louse in a Heap.

18.

Most pittiously he there did shrugg,
And curst a thousand times damn'd Mars,
Then popt down head to save each Lugg

And worshipp'd Royal A---------

19.

Full sore he stunk whilest helter skelter,
He heard the Ammunition skim,
For still as he would seek new shelter
Fear, like Gun-stick, scow'rd him.

20.

Yet,did our Hero 'scape the Brunt,
Through Ghostly Skill to disappear,
For, like a Duck, he div'd i'th'Front,
And rose again i'th' Rear.
21.

Where, safe as a Surgeon in the Hold,
With Sweard sharp set for cruel Blow
He huff 'd and puff'd, look'd big and bold,
And stroak'd  the Soyl where Beard should grow.

22.

Then with his trusty Whynnyard he,
All man, Sir, slashing through the Air,
   Cry'd, like the Taylor to the Tree,

Here I could  have you, Sir,—— and there—

23.

Thus did he brandishing proceed,
Till the desperate War like Minion
Made th' individual Attoms bleed,
And peel'd them like an Onion.

24.

This without pitty too to spare
Those which he breath'd, as if he meant
Revenge on the Philosopher
That says, Our World is accident.

25.

His waiting Genius,  eke also
With world of pains, and muckle do,
From Scabbard Salted, as I trow,
A pickl'd Weapon drew.

26.

To Lord and Master true he stuck,
And ventur'd full as hard as he;
For 'twas the way to meet good luck,
And be from dangers free.

27.

The lusty Loon came on behind ,
And in his mighty Cloak-bag caught
That Courage blown away by th' VVind,
VVith which the Esquire should have fought.

                                  28.

The sprightly Wallet 'gan to jump,
Possess'd with these Almighty Charms,
And, bidding long-farewell to Rump,
VVas in a moment up in Arms.

29.

The noble Champion bravely then
Began to smile and take good chear,
'Twas time to lay about him when
Portmanteau turn'd a Volunteer.

30.

Martch on, my Darlings then, quoth he;
For lo ! the Battel's at a stand,
And 'tis ordain'd that only we
Should tame this uncouth Land.

31.

This said, into a Body they
With Marshall Skill drew up their Force,
Consisting, as you heard me say,
Of Cloak-bag and twa Horse.

32

But ah! alack,and weel-a-day!        
The Canny Duke (God bless his Grace)
E're these three wights, could reach their prey,
Had laid it dead upon the place.     

33.

The Squire, all Fury, took it ill,
For sorely he began to maunder,
And 'cause he left no Foes to kill
Wept out like Alexander.
34.

Yet when he ceas'd to sob and frown,
Quoth he, What though the Kerns are slain ?
To save my Honour and Renown
  I'll kill them o're again.

35.

With that his Punnyard forth he draws,
(Thus Death himself prov'd mortal too)
For napping in a dead man's Jaws
He ran him through and through.

36.

This was his Zeal and Loyalty,
And fear of being Credit-shamm'd,
He garr'd each Treach'rous Scot twice dee
In hopes he might be double damn'd.

37.

Thus too St. George he has o'recome,
And stabb'd the mighty Hero's Fame,
Honour he leaves him  not a Crum,
All's due to---------'s Name.

38.

He now as England's Champion raigns;
'Tis he alone is born to rule,
To bind the Quarrel some in Chains,
And call a Giant Fool.

F I N I S .

L O N D O N  , Printed for T. B.1679.A  SHORT ACCOUNT    

OF THE

MARTYRDOM  OF JAMES ALGIE & JOHN PARK,

WHO SUFFERED AT THE CROSS OF PAISLEY, ON THE 3RD OF FEBRUARY, 1685.

(From the Liberator.)           

THE Broomlands church has changed its name.    A stone   
has been inserted over the main door, bearing the'follow-
ing inscription:-

MARTYRS' CHURCH,                          

Erected in 1835, by the Friends of the                 

Church of Scotland.                               

"Blessed are they that dwell in thy house, they will       
be still praising thee."

This name is given, ostensibly, as a tribute to the me- 
mory of the martyrs who are buried in the adjoining field, 
which field is to be included in the new burying ground, 
and an clegant mounment is to be created over the precious 
remains, from a design by Mr. Drummond, architect,          

The martyrs, James Algie and John Park, were exe-
cuted at the Cross of Paisley, on Tuesday, Feb. 3, l635,
for refusing the abjuration and test oaths, and were buried
in the Gallowgreen, near to the foot of what is now Max- 
welton Street. About 50 years ago, what remained of 
their bones and dust were removed, and interred in the field 
above alluded to, which at that time was intended for a 
public cemetry.                                                                 

Those patriots who have served their country, who have 
died in its defence, or who have laid down their lives for 
the cause of truth, ought to be held in ever-honoured re- 
membrance. Their heroic deeds, their noble daring, and 
their godly virtues, are associated with the best and the 
purest feelings of the human heart; and he whose heart 
dose not warm, and his puls best his at the recollection 
of the stern honour, the indomitable spirit of independ-  
ence, and matchless perseverance of the persecuted Cove-  
nanters, during trials and perils almost unexampled in the   
annals of civilized life, is neither a true Scotsman, nor the   
friend of the human kind.

Some there are , who consider that the giving of the                                                  
church the name of " Martyrs'," arises from selfish mo-  
tives, with a view that it will operate as an enthusiastic  
charm, thereby securing to the house more general patron- 
age and secular attention ; but in a case like this, the pa-  
triot and the philosopher cares little for the motives, if
they are founded in honour.    Ere long, the men and the 
motives, and the present generation will be gone and for-  
gotten, but the church and its inscription will remain to
point out to the patriot pilgrim the path to the martyrs'
tomb.

The present church of Scotland, however, must retrace
its steps, and a long course of defection, before it can bear
any resemblance to that Church of Scotland for which
these martyrs suffered. The present Scottish Church is
essentially Erastian in its constitution, very unlike the pure
republican form of the ancient church. In its ancient
practice the church conducted its election on the princi
ple of universal suffrage; the minister and the members of
session were appointed by the people. Accordingly, its
presbyteries, its synods, and the General Assembly, spoke
the voice of the people, and in truth shewed the very form
and pressure of the times. Hence their judicatories were
the determined advocates of the rights of the people, both
civil and religious, and hence the hatred in which they
Were held by the aristocracy and by a profligate court. It
was the sage apothegm of Charles II. that a Presbyterian
Church was incompatible with a kingly government, and
these views led to that severe and ruthless persecution of
which the martyrs in question, among many thousands of
others, were the victims. There is one curiosity in this
state of thlings which is noticed neither by Voluntaries nor
Compulsories, viz. a Church firmly established, and yet, so
far from being influenced by the State, always acting
powerfully in opposition to the arbitrary sway of a corrupt 
government. 

As an elucidation of what we have wrote, and to give
information on a subject that is but partially known, we
deem it proper to give a brief narrative of the" transactions
connected with the apprehension and legal murder of the
two young martyrs, and we hope that the inference drawn
from the whole will shew the absolute necessity for every
individual, whatever his rank in life may be, to be con-
stantly on the watch, least his civil and religious rights
should be invaded.

James Algie and John Park were residents in the pa-
rish of Eastwood, and had, for some time previous to their
arrestment, rented conjunctly the small farm of Kennes-
head,1n the barony of Darnley. They had,however, left
it some short time antecedent to this, which so irritated

the person that had been instrumental in bringing them
into the farm, that, in the vindictive spirit of revenge, he
sent his nephew, upon Sabbath, Feb. 1st, with a letter to
John Cochrane of Ferguslie, at Paisley, baillie of the re-
gality of Darnley, informing him that these two persons
were inimical to the Government, and that he, as judge 
ordinary, ought to notice them, as he would be answera
ble. The bearer arrived during the forenoon's service, and
was put into confinement until it was over, when a party
of soldiers were ordered out, and the two young men were
seized in their own house while at worship, and imme
diately carried to Paisley, where they underwent a long-
examination in the afternoon ; but not giving satisfaction,
they were, as was to be expected, committed for trial, which
was appointed, to take place on Tuesday. On Monday
they were visited by a pions Presbyterian minister, one of
the indulged, as they were termed." They appeared to him
to be pious, consciencious men, and that they had latterly
imbibed the doctrines of those who denied the king's auth-
ority. He, however, so far overcame their scruples, that
they consented to take the oath of abjuration ; but when,
in open court, they offered to take the oath, the bloody
minded Hamilton of Orbiston answered, "The abjnration 
oath shall not save you,unless you  take the test also, you 
shall hang presently." The men, having a just abhorrence
of the test, instantly replied, " If to save our lives we must
take the test, and the abjuration will not save us, we will
take no oaths at all. This was about ten o'clock in the
morning, and they were immediately sentenced to be hang-
ed at two in the afternoon. Orbiston was the commis-
sioner of the court of justiciary, and he was bound by the
law, even as it then stood, to liberate them on their taking
the oath of abjuration ; but the truth was, Lord Ross was
the prime mover in all these bloody transactions, and Or-
biston was a mere tool in his hands, and it was determined
that these men should die.  Orbiston boasted after the sen-
tence was passed,  " They thought to have cheated the
judges, but, by G—d, I have tricked them."    So dreadful
was the thirst for innocent blood in these evil days.

When they came to the scaffold they behaved with great
fortitude, but when they attempted to address the assem-
bled multitude, the drums were beat to drown their voice 
They sang the118th psalm, from the 17th verse down,
wards, and when giving out the lines :—
		We shall not die, but live, and shall
      	The works of God discover—

the miscreant Lord Ross exclaimed, shaking his head,
" But ye shall dic."
The able and acute editor of Wodrow's history, Dr.
Burns, attempts to extenuate this internal saying of Lord
Ross, (merely, we suppose, because it was the saving of a
Lord), on the grounds that that nobleman  alluded to the
chance of a rescuc. But on reading Wodrow's account of
the execution, the very reverse of a rescue is quite ap-
parent and no man can have the least hesitation in  saying
that the exclamation proceeded from the black  malignant
heart of the wretch.

After singing the psalm and praying, they offered their
bible to any of the crowd that  might be pleased to accept
them,  but such  was, the general fear that no person would
take them.    The martyrs then quietly declared that they,
would die with the word of truth in their bosoms.    Their
waiscoats were accordingly unbuttoned by the executioner,
and the bibles placed nearest their heart,and in a feiv mo-
ments these worthy youths  were launched  into eternity.

Thus died these noble martyrs ;  and well may their sim-
ple epitaph say

		" This shall a standing  witness be,
		"Twixt Presbytery  and Prelacy."

The miscreant Lord Ross outlived the Revolution, and
received emolument, and was covered with undeserved
honour by the WHIGS; but nothing could allay the horrors
of his perturbed imagination, which peopled his den at
Hawkhead with demons, and other evil spirits,
tan himself was said frequently to pay him a visit; and
often had the pious ministers of the Abbey church to wait
upon him for the purpose of soothing his awakened con-
science. He at length went to his account; the name is
now totally extinct, and the family is merged in that of'
Kelburne. And happy for the world, if any of that gall
and malignity of spirit which characterized Lord Ross be
inherited by his successors, it must quietly evaporate in
the petty persecution of poachers.                  

CALDWELL AND  SON PRINTERS.