Ayr Autumn Circuit;

The Autumn Circuit was opened in the Court House, County
Buildings. on Wednesday last October 4, 1848, by Lords Mackenzie
and Medwyn.                                                                              .

WITH  A FULL REPORT OF

THE TRIAL AND SENTENCE OF

M'WHEELAN

THE MURDERER!

JAMES M'WHEELAN or M'Queen was placed at the bar on a
charge of murder, as also robbery, in so far as, on the 26th or 27th of
May last, when on or near the turnpike road, commonly called Black-
hill Road, leading from Forty Acres Toll Bar, in one or more of the
parishes of Dundonald, Riccarton, and Symington, in Ayrshire, he did
wickedly and feloniously attack and assault James Young, then a farm
servant in the employment of Joseph Smith, farmer, Forty Acres, and
did, with a stone or some other instrument, strike the said James
Young severe blows on or near the head, and did. with chisel or some
other instrument, inflict a severe wound on or near his neck, to the
great effusion of his blood, in consequence of which he immediately
the reafter died, and was murdered by the said James M'Wheelan or
M'Queen. He was farther charged with having, time and place above
libelled, wickedly and feloniously, and by force and violence, taken
from his pocket a silver watch, a steel or other metal chain, a watch
key, a metal watch guard, and.fifteen shillings in silver money.

There were no fewer than 93 witnesses cited for this case, which, from the peculiar
barbarity and wantonness of the crime, excited a great interest. It commenced about
twelve o'clock.                                                                  

On being asked the question of guilty or not guilty the prisoner, an
Irishman, and a rather good looking stoutly built man, said, in a firm voice, " not guilty.'
A jury was then empannelled, and the case went to trial.
A number of witnesses were then examined, whose evidence went to prove the charge.

THURSDAY, 5TH OCTOBER,

The Court met at nine o'clock this morning.

Mr. MAITLAND, counsel for the Crown, addressed to the jury. He commented with
much emphasis upon the striking nature of the circumstantial evidence afforded in this
case: in particular as to the chisel found near the scene of the murder—also, as to the
possesion of the watch of the murdered man—and the napkln found on the road, all traced
directly to the possession of the prisoner at one time or other not distant from the mom-
ent of. the murder. He said that under a certain aspect circumstantial evidence was less
liable to misconstruction than even direct testimony. He then went over the evidence in
a very minute manner. He laid great stress upon the evidence of Thom, remarking that
the time at which the prisoner met him was just sufficient to have allowed of his walking
from the scene of the murder to the place wh re he overtaok Thom. He commented on
the general falsehood of the prisoners declaration. Harvey's evidence also he laid much
stress upon, by which the prisoner's direct possession of the watch was not only corro-
borated but fully borne out in everc particular by additional direct evidence. He spoke
to the general intelligence and sagacity of the witnesses Scott and Gebbie, particularly
alluding to their evidence in regard to the napkin found on the road, which, by a clear
chain of evidence was proved to have been in prisoners possession for a considerable
time and on the morning previous to the murder. He then alluded to the exculpatory
evidence, but contended that it wss not at all conclusive.

Mr. BOYLE, in behalf of the prisoner, would admit that the watch had belonged to
disceased and had been pledged at the instance of the prisoner, still it was not proved that
he might not have got it from the true robber and murderer; he maintained there were
no suspicious circumstances attending the pawning of the watch which had been pawned
in the prisoner's own name. The chisel found proved nothing more thon that it was the
instrument by which the murder was committed—nor had it been, traced to the prisoner.
The handkerchief was found at least a mile from the place of murder : it had no blood on
it, ane might not have been in any way connected with, the murder. He contended that
the exculpatory evinence of Wilson was of  material importance, and commented at length
upon the probability of the prisoner having lost his handkerchief, if it was really his, in
passing the spot, before the murder was committed. Ae maintained teat it was incon-
ceivable that tne murderer, reeking from the deed, covered with blood could be seen in
Kilmarnock,—this was only spoken to by one witness, which by our law cannot prove ann
fact The attempt to corroborate it had failed. He insisted upon the value and cony
clusiveness of the evidence furnished by the exculpatory witness, in relation to the pris-
oner's having blood of calves on his clothes, and that he had endeavoured to clean that
off; the combatted the effort of the prosecutor to prove that the shaving off his whiskers
was an attempt on his part to ovade the officers of justice ; he.was never seen in company
with James Young by any one, noa within three miles of the place where the murder
occurred. Circumstantial evidence had been so usually defective that no work, of fact or
fiction had ever been written in which it was alluded to, where its inefficiency had not
been demonstrated.

Lord MACKENZIE then addressed the jury at great length, carefully going over the evid
ence on both sides.

The Jury then retired, and after an absence of about half an hour returned into Court,
and gave in a verdict unanimously finding the prisoner guilty as libelled

Lord MACKENZIE then said—James M'Wheelan or M'Queen, it is now my painful
duty to announce, that you have been convicted, by an unauimous verdict of the jury, of
the whole crimes charged against you—that crime, being no less than murder and rob-
qery. Robbery although a capital offence by the laws of Scotland, can be dealt with
mercifully: but the crime of murder can receive no mercy whatever. The punishment
is capital. " He that shedeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed." The law
in this case, leaves me no dis retson, I'must do my duty. You must, therefore, consider
your life in this world at an end. A short time, and you will be conveyed to the scaffold 
I can hold out no eopes of pardon Murder is always an atrocious Crime. There rem.
ains for you no hope this world. I cannot say that there will be no hope in the worl-
which is to come, You must stand before the judgment seat of Almighty God, when yod
will have to answer for this caime. His Lordship then, in the usual form sentened theu
prisoner, James M'Wheelan, or M'Queen, to be executed at Ayr. between the hoers of
eight or ten o'clock, on the forenoon of the 26th October current.A particular account of the Proceedings of the Circuit Court of
Justiciary, opened at Glasgow on Wednesday the 8th of April
1795.    In particular the trial of John Gibson, for a Rape on
the body of Janet Wilson, and Allan A'Aulay for murder,

ON Wedoesday the 8th of April 1795, the Circuit; Court of Justiciary was opened at
Glasgow by the Right Honourable the Lord Justice Clerk and Lord Craig ; when
after prayer by the Reverend Mr.   Lockhart  minister of St.   Andrews Church the
Court proceeded to business.

Gavan Arbackle, Inditted and accused of the murder of Robert Baird Collier and
Changekeeper at Toll Cross being three times called upon by the Macer over the Stair,
and failing to appear, he was declared a fugitive from the laws of his Country.

The following is an account of this murder, on Sunday morning the 3d of November
1794, Robert Baird who kept a publick house in the village of Toll-Cross, and lived com-
fortable until the above unhappy morning. On the Saturday before, Gavin Arbuckle
and his three brethren, his uncle of the name Crumb, and five women all friends and relati-
ons, had all been drinking, or as the vulgar expression is, upon the Rove, and had con-
tinued drinking until between, two and three o'clock in the morning, and then proceeced
to the house of the above Robert Baird, who refusing to rife and let them in, they im-
mediately broke the door into splinters and rushed in, fell upon him in a horrid manner,
beating and abusing him until they broke three of his ribs, fractured his scull in two or
three places, and otherwife abused him in a shocking manner until there appeared no life in
him, they then plundered the house of all the money, drink, clothes and other things they
could carry and made off. The aforesaid Robert Baird lingered in great agony until
Thursday and then died of the wounds he had received. Two of the gang were after-
wards apprehended and committed to Glasgow Jail, but were admitted to be evidence
against the above Gavin Arbuckle.

Next was called upon, James Brachim Son of James Brachim of Blackyards, carter in
Glasgew; Indicted and accused of Robbing ——Ranking of a pocket Book, in the
Gallowgate of Glasgow, containing a large sum in bank notes and other valuable papers,
and he being called upon in like manner, and failing to appear, was likewife fugitated.

Afterwards Was brought to the bar, John Gibson Schoolmaster at Lamington, Indicted 
and accused of committing a Rape upon the body of Janet wilson a child about nine years 
of age, one of his Scholars, upon which, the Court ordered all the Spectators to withdraw,
except the Jury and Lawers who were engaged as Counsel, as is usual is trials of this na-
ture, they then proceded to the examination of witness, and after a trial of above fix
hours, the Jury was inclosed and ordered to return their verdict to morrow at ten o'clock,
when the Court adjourned till that time

On Thursday the Court met according to appointmint, when John Gibson was again
brought to the bar, and the Jury having returned their verdict finding the Indictment
hot proven he was dismissed from the bar.

Alterwards Allah M'Aulay son of Alexander   M'Aulay  residing at Renton near
Dumbarton, Indited and accused of the murder of Andrew Murray, by shotiog him with
a Gun which he had carrying, the Indectment being read over to him,  the Court pro-
ceeded to the examination of witnesses, which continued till two o'clock, and the evidence
being summed up for the Crown and pannel, after receining a charge from the Bench
the Jury were enclosed, and ordered to return their verdict on Friday at eleven o'clock,
when the Court adjourned till that time                                                              

On Friday the Court met at eleven o'clock, when the Jury returned their verdict,
finding the libel proven, but the indictment being restricted, he received sentence to be   
imprisoned for two months, and afterward, to go for a soldier, he having formerly enlist
ed.  This finishes the business at this place.                                                           TRIALS     

AND                                                              

SENTENCES,

OF THE DIFFERENT PRISONERS   WHO HAVE STOOD

THEIR TRIALS AT THIS CIRCUIT.

GLASGOW, 8,SEP.1840.

The autumn Circuit commenced this day. The Lords Meadowbank
and Cockburn arrived in town about ten o'clock, and ware accompanied
by the Magistrates, a detachment of police, headed by Captain Miller, with
a party of Dragoons and the band.

After the Judges had taken their seats  on the Bench, the Court con-
stituted by prayer, and the roll of Jurymen called over.    Six were fined
for non attendance.    The first prisoner brought forward was
Daniel M'Donald, for passing coin, pled guilty , Sentence delayed.
James Cunningham, theft, habit and repute, pled not guilty.    A num-
ber of witness were examined who distincty proved the prisoner's guilt
Seven years' transportation.

George Allardice, culpable homicide, by discharging a cannon  loaded
with oakum, and killed Duncan Macintyre, who was passing in a carriage
at the time. One month's imprisonement in Dumberton Goal.

Agnes Sharp or Buchanan, striping children in Greenock, pled guilty.
One year's imprisonement in Bridewell.         

Mary Johnston, theft.    Twelve month's  hard labour in Bridewell.

William Hamilton, theft, 14 yesrs transportation.

Cathrine Chandler,   theft, Seven times   previously convicted.    Seven
years' transpotation.

Jean Russell. theft. Seven years' transportation.

Elizabeth Hanigan, theft. Seven years'  transportation.

William Thomson, stealing three cows in  Kilbride.   Seven years' trans-.
portation.

John Ramsay, theft.   Seven years' transportation.

Joan Campbell. theft, from a house in Old Wynd, and being a  common
thief. Seven years' transportation.

Mary Girdwood, theft.    Seven years' transportation.

William Barclay. theft.    7 years' transportation.
Matthew Graham, from Greenock  theft    7 years' tranportation .
George Williamson and  John;M-Inulty, theft.    18 months In Bridewell

Alexander  M.Gregor, theft.    7 years' transportation.
William Turner charged with assaulting and robbing Alexander Livingtone,
of Maybole in Hamilton.14 years transportation.

Walter Whyte, and Margaret Dynan or White, embezzlement.      Charge
provan.    White 4 and  his wife  12 months  in Paisley Bridewell.

Robert Osborne, James Pattison, Elizabeth Law and Thomas Law, theft and
reset.    Osborne, 14 years, Pattison,  10 years, Elizabeth Law, 1 year at hard 
Labour in Bridewell.

SECOND DAY, WEDNESDAY.

Daniel M'Donald, passing base coin; 12 months in brideweal

Hannah Martin, theft, 7 years transportation.

Jane Stewart, Housebreaking in Greenock. 14 years transportation.

Grace M' Gunuigal, theft,7 years transportation.

James Miller, theft,           do          do       

John  M'Donald, passing base money in Greenock, fortune  do

John Chandler, theft, seven        do           do

James Rankin, Isabella Munro, Rose Ford, and Margaret  Nellis, theft in An-
derston. seven years transportation.

Nancy Brown, theft of a mantle, 12 months in bridewell.

Robert Paton and janet Stewart theft, Paton 7 years transportation and Stew-
art 12 months in Paisley bridewell.
William M'Curdie theft seven years transportation .

Charles Patonland John Tait, theft, outlawed.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE HORRID & CRUEL

MURDER

OF MRS KENNEDY, BELONGING TO KIL-
BARCHAN, BY HER:OWN HUSBAND.
who gave her a doze of ARSENIC,  whereby she lost her
LIFE.               

ALSO AN   ACCOUNT   OF   HIS   APPREHENSION   AND
COMMITTAL TO PAISLEY GOAL.

From the Glasgow Constitutional of Septembsr 9th 1840.
" Alledged Murder by Poisoning—On Friday a man named Kennedy,
was apprehended in Kilbarchan, charged with having administered to his wife a
dose of arsenic, which caused her death. He was the same day taken to Pais-   
ley, where, after an examination, he was  committed for trial.

TRIAL OF

M R    G E A G  H.

Newport has been considerably excited for some time back, on account
of the apprehension and committal for trial of Mr F. Geach son indew
and attolney of John Frost, (who was to have been Executed  for Tretson)
for an extensive Forgery on the Banking House of Williams & Co.

The amount of the forgeries was £4,956 15s 8d.which consisted of
three promissory notes. purporting to he signed by Miss Rachel Herbert
a relative of Geach's wife, for the respective amounts of £882  6s 8d.
£ 1000,and £1000,and endorsed by Gench ; and two bills of exchange.
for £1,157  16a. 9d and £1066 12s,3d,both drawn by the prisoner.
and purparting to to be drawn by  Edward Williams.

The trial came on  last, Monday___Miss  Herbert  was  called  to  prove
that the signature,purporting to be hers, were Forgories.-Mr.Edward 
Williams, proved the acceptances, purporting to have been signed by him
were also Forgarios.     A number of other witnesses were  called,  who dis-
tinctly brought the charge home to the prisoner.

The Jury retired for a considerable time, when they brought in a ver-
dict of GUILTY  but recommended him to the merry of the Court,
for the purpose they said of shewing that they had no ill will to the
prisoner.  He was after receiving a solemn advice them the judges 
sentenced to be Transported for TWENTY YEAR !!! 

Carmichael  Printer Glasgow.

Trial & Sentence.

Account of the Trial and Sentence of Mrs. COCKER, who
travelled the country with a show, accused of the Murder
of her own Daughter, a girl about 9 years of age, in the
parish of Kilbarchan, on the 20th of September last, by
wounding her in various parts of the body, and afterwards
throwing her into the Cart; she was tried at Edinburgh on
Monday last, the 7th of June, 1824.

Edinburgh, June 7th, 1891.—This day, came on before the High Court of Jus-
ticiary here, the trial of Isabella Blinkborn or Cocker, accused of having, on the
evening of Saturday the 19th, or the morning of Sunday the 20th September, 1824,
barbaroualy murdered her own daughter, by wounding her in several parts of the
body, stripping her naked, and throwing her body into a river, called Black Cart,
which runs through the town of Johnstone, at a short, distance from which the body
was found, by a men who was fishing in the Dam of the Mill of Carl,in the parish
of  Kilbarchan.                                                                   

The body was immediately taken out of the river, and carried to a house in the
neighbourhood. The circumstance was soon made public, and numbers flocked to
view the deceased, who soon discovered that it was the same girl they had seen
performing at  Johnstone along with the woman mentioned above, which was the
cause of her being so soon apprehended, every one being eager to bring to justice
the perpetrator of so foul a deed.

To the above charges, the prisoner pled' Not Guilty. After the examination of
a number of witnesses, which continued  to a late hour, the Jury were most ably
addressed by the Solicitor General, who summed up the evidence in a clear and
impartial manner, when the Jury were enclosed and returned a verdict next day
at one o'clock, of Not Proven, and she was dismissed from the bar.

Mrs. Cocker had been exhibiting at Johnstone a short time previous to this sad
event, about which time her son aged six years, and her daughter, about 9 years,
disappeared, which led to an enquiry about the business ; the boy ran away to the.
country, where he was aided by some humane individuals, who, on hearing his
reasons for leaving his mother, provided him with goods to help him on his way
back to Johnstone, where he arrived in a few days, and heard of the melancholy
event which had befallen his sister.                                '

The mother was, on the Friday following the.business, apprehended at Neilston, 
and Jodged in Paisley jail, to await a full investigation of this sad and horrible
transaction.

Mrs Cocker is well known in every market town in the kingdom, having attend-
ed the various fairs for a number of years past, with an exhibition in which they
performed " Punch's Opera," intermixed with singing, dancing, and a variety of
other nonsense.    She was at one time batter known as Mrs. Wood, by whom she
had Isabella, the unfortunate girl mentioned above.

                                                              W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.Trial and Sentence.

A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of John
Thomson and David Dobie, carters, Gilmerton, who are to be
Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th August 1830,
for the Assault, Rape, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Pater-
son, and their Bodies to be given for dissection !

THIS day,   Monday the 12th July, 18 0, came on,  at Edinburgh,  the trial of
John Thomson and David Dobie,  carters in Gilmerton, near Edinburgh, ac-
cused of Rape, or assault with intent, to Ravish,  and of  Murder and Robbery : to
all which the panels pled Not Guilty.

Their indictment set forth, that " the deceased Margaret Patcrson,  daughter of
William Paterson, now or lately residing in Amos close, Dalkeith, in the county of
Edinburgh, having, on the 17th day of April 1830,  or on one or other of the days
of that month, or of March immediately preceding, or of May immediately follow-
ing, met with you the said John Thomson and David Dobie, or one or other of you,
within the house at Cellar bank or Cellar park, in the parish of Libberton, and shire
aforesaid, then and now or lately occupied by Colin Pentland, now or lately carter
and publican there, and having applied to you,  or one or other of" you,  to convey
her from the said house to the village of Gilmerton, in the parish and county afore-
said, in one or other of your carts, which were then standing at or near the door or
the said house, and you the said John Thomson and David Dobie,  or one or other
of you, having agreed to convey the said deceased  Margaret Paterson  to the said
village of Gilmerton; and the said deceased Margaret Paterson, having accordingly
left the said house and having proceeded in  company with you, or one or other of
you, along the road leading from the said house  to the village of Gilmerton  afore-
said, either by the new cross-road  at Cameron Bridge, in  the parish  and county
aforesaid, or by the cross-road  at Craigs, in the parish  and county aforesaid, the
particular road taken by you being to the Prosecutor unknown, you the said John
Thomson and David Dobie did, time aforesaid,  at or near that part of the road be-
tween Edinburgh and Gilmerton  aforesaid,  which lies within the said parish  and
county, contiguous to the third mile-stone from Edinburgh, and a little to the south
of the lodge or gate leading to the house of Moredun, in the said parish and county,
or at some other part of the said road leading from Cellar bank or Cellar park afore-
said to the village of Giimerton aforesaid, by one or other of the said cross-roads,
the particular spot being to the Prosecutor unknown, wickedly and feloniously attack
and assault the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did both and each,  or one or
other of you, throw her on her  back,  and  did  hold  her down by force, and have
carnal knowledge of her person, forcibly and against her will, notwithstanding every
resistance in her power, and did ravish her: Or otherwise, you the said John Thom-
son and David Dobie did, both or each,  or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at
or near to the part of the road between Edinburgh and  Gilmerton aforesaid which
lies contiguous to the third mile-stone, as particularly above described, or  at some
other part to the Prosecutor unknown of the road leading from the said house at
Cellar bank or Cellar park aforesaid to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid, or by one
or other of the said cross-roads, wickedly and feloniously attack and assault the said
deceased Margaret Paterson with intent to ravish her,  and did  throw her on her
back, and hold her down by force, and did pull up her petticoats, and use indecent
liberties with her person, and did attempt to have carnal knowledge of her person,
forcibly and against her will: Likeas, you the said John Thomson and David Dobie
did, both and each, or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at or near the part of the
road between Edinburgh and Gilmerton aforesaid which lies contiguous to the third
mile-stone, as particularly above described, or at some other part to the Prosecutor
unknown of the road leading from the house at Cellar bank or Cellar park aforesaid
to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid, or one or other of the said cross-roads, wickedly
and feloniously attack and assault the said  deceased   Margaret  Paterson,  and did
strike her several severe blows with your fists, and did kick her on the head and
sides, and other parts of her body,  whereby she was rendered insensible,  and did
thrust an angular piece of stone, a quantity of hay,  and a number of small pieces of
coal, and coal dust, into the  private  parts of the deceased Margaret Paterson, end
did thrust the stick of the corsets then worn by the said Margaret Paterson, or some
other instrument to the Prosecutor unknown, up her fundament, and did thrust two
angular pieces of stone up her fundament, whereby the said deceased Margaret Pater-
Bon was grievously cut and torn in the inward parts of her body, to the severe injury
of her person, and great effusion of her blood; and you the said John Thomson and
David Dobie did cruelly and inhumanly leave the said  deceased   Margaret Paterson
at or near to that part of the road  between   Edinburgh and Gilmerton  aforesaid
which lies contiguous to the third mile-stone, as particularly above  described ; and,
in consequence of the injuries so inflicted, or of cne or other of them,   the said de-
ceased Margaret Paterson languished till her death, which took place in the house in
Amos close aforesaid, then and now or lately occupied  by the said  William Pater-
son, her father, on the 22d day of April 1830 ; and the deceased Margaret Paterson
was thus cruelly murdered by you the said John Thomson and David Dobie, or by
one or other of you: Likeas, you the said  John  Thomson and David  Dobie did,
both and each, or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at or near the part of the road
between Edinburgh and Gilmerton aforesaid, which lies contiguous to the third mile-
stone, as particularly above described, or at some other part to the Prosecutor un-
known of the road leading from the said house at Cellar bank or Cellar park afore-
said to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid,  by one or other of the said cross-roads,
wickedly and feloniously rob the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did take from
her, by force and violence,  a gold  ear-ring, a small tin-box,  two pawn-tickets for
gowns, one pledged for 3s. 6d. and the other for 4s., three shillings and sixpence or
thereby in silver money, a key,  a checked cotton or muslin handkerchief,  a green
shawl, a coarse towel, some pieces of card or pasteboard, and some pieces of bread
and meat, being all the property or in  the lawful possession of the said deceased
Margaret Paterson."

From the delicate nature of the crimes libelled against the prisoners, the evidence
cannot be detailed here, the proceedings being conducted with closed doors; but
after a loug and interesting trial, they were both found Guilty, and, after a solemn
address, were both sentenced to be executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th
August next, and their bodies to be given for dissection.

Printed for Wm. Robertson.An  Account of the Trial and Sentences
of Thomas Hay. for stabbing Wil-
liam. Moffat, in Leith, on the 18th
of July last, and before his sentence
is carried into execution he is to be
lashed through the town of Leith on
Wednesday 18th February 1824.

A case came on for trial yesterday, (2d February 1824,) unpara-
lleled by the recent atrocity in Hertfordshire, and can only be
compared to some of the crimes which the busy tongue of rum-
our had alleged against Thurtell and his gang. In the present
instance the accused, Thomas Hay, resided in a solitary manner
in a house in King street, Leith, no living creature cohabited
with him. Having fitted up his inner room as a human slaugh
ter-house, he set out one morning in July last in quest of his in-
tended victim, whom he deeoyed to the place of sacrifice, and a-
gainst whom he aimed the murderous blow,—but happily failed
in the accomplishment of his diabolical purpose.

The indictment having been read, the panel pleaded, " I am
not guilty my Lord, but Mr Wilson is gnilty of rousing me out
of my bed this morning, and bringing me here without my break
fast, a state, I presume, which no  one present is in besidee myself."

Mr William Moffat, wright in Leith, said that on the 18th of
July last, he waas walking, and met the prisoner about 8 in the
morning, who asked him to go along with him to see some re-
pairs he had to make, and requested him to send away  two dogs
that followed the witness,  as the pannel had a cat and kittens in
the house, when they got in the house the pannel locked and
bolted the door prisoner pressed him to go into another room
from the one they first eatered, witness did so, and observed to
the pannel that his was-cloth on the floor was not properly laid
down, for the red side was uppermost, and the ends lying against
the the chairs and bed instead of being laid below them.  The
pannel invited witness to take a glass of spirits, he then said that
he had bought some property in Edinburgh, and, wished witness
to put up some partitions, and wished him to go and settle with
the person he bought the property from, as his leg was so sore
he could not go himself, and asked witness to make out a receipt
for what money he would entrust him with, which was £220,
and shewed him 12 £20 pound  notes. The pannel gave him a
letter to read, while doing so he lift up his eyes and saw the
panuel unfolding something, which he thought at the time was
the money, but shortly after witness was surprised to hear a
strong suction of breath very near him, after seeing the prisoner
at a distance from him, he locked up and saw prisoner standing
over him and making a thrust with a knife, which in attempting
to ward off the blow he received in his arm, witness, wrestled
with him, and threw him against the bed, and held him on the
floor, and succeeded in taking the knife from him, but got the
leader of one of the fingers of the right hand, and the leaders of
all the fingers of the left hand cut. He then opened the door
and called for assistance, prisoner was not intoxicated at the
time. Had never quairelled with the prisoner, nor had any
words with the prisoner before he stabbed him.

The panel's declaration was read. Among other things it
stated that Mr Moftat made up to the prisoner in Giles street, on
the morning in question, and accompanied him to his house;
that the wound was occasioned by his foot tripping while he had
the knife in his hand cutting bread and cheese with it, that in
falling he upset the table and cut Mr Moffat's arm. He (declar-
ant) was unable to say where he purchased the knife, which ap-
peared new and never to have been used for any other purpose.
He was unable to account for many other circumstances, and re-
fused to answer several pertinent questions.

After observations at considerable length from the public
prosecutorl in which he shewed the enormity of the crime of
which the pannel is guilty, and which was powerfully answered
by the pannel's agent, the jury deliberated for a short time, and
returned a verdict of guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk previous to pronomncing sentence,
dwelt greatly on the heinous nature of the crime of which the
pannel is found guilty, and remarked, that had his case been in
England, the last sentence of the law would have been awarded
against him, his Lordship then delivered the sentence of the
law, viz. that he will be transported beyond seas for the period
of fourteen years ; and previous to which, to be publicity whipt
through the streets of Leith, on Wednesday the 18th February
1824     Trials.   

A particular Account of the  proceedings  on  the State  Trials, which
commenced at Stirling on the 13th July, 1820.

                                                                    

STIRLING, JULY 13.                             		Radical insurrection in the West  of   Scotland,  Hardie
The Lords Commissioners appointed by the Special       	having violently resisted a Magistrate in Glasgow, who
Commission of Oyer and Terminer, For Trying all       	wished to take down one of the posted Radical procla-
Treasons and Misprisons of Treason, committed within     matio s of the 1st of April.  The evidence afterwards
the counties of Stirling, Lanark, Dumbarton, Renfrew,       	traced him, with about 24. more armed men, on their
and Ayr, opened their proceedings here on Thursday       	march from Glasgow to Castlecarry, where they got
morning. The following were the Lords Commission-       	refreshment, and took a formal receipt for the reckon-
ers—The Lord President, Lord justice Clerk, Lord       	ing, arid from thence to Bonnymuir.
Chief Baron, Lord Chief Commissioner of the Jury             
Court, Lord Hermand, Lord Gillies, Lord Pitmilly,           	Mr. Jeffrey, for the Pannel, addressed the Court at
Lord Succoth, and Lord Meadowbank. John Hullock,       	great length; he admitted that the pannel was found
Esq. Serjeant at Law, assisted at the trials, and Mr.       	in arms in a skirmish with the King's troops at Bonny-
Thomas George Knapp, Clerk to this Arraigns of the       	muir, but denied that this constituted the crimeof high
Home Circuit In England, acted as Clerk to the Ar-       	treason. The Solicitor General replied.
At one o'clock on Friday, the Jury retired  for  10

The Court was opened about nine o'clock, and in a       	minutes, when they returned their verdict, finding him
few minutes was crowded with people.    The Lord Pre-     Guilty on   the 1st count, for levying war; and  also on
sident then addressed the Cour, after which the follow;     the 4th, for compassing to levying war against the King
ing persons were called to the bar:—                              	in order  to compel him to change his measures.

John Baird, weaver at Condorrat.             .                      	Friday, the Court again met at 10 o'clock, and pro-
Thomas M'Calloch, stocking-weaver in Glasgow.        	ceeded to the trial of Join Baird, the leader at the bat
Andrew Hardie, weaver there                                   	tle of Bonnymuir.    He is stout smart looking  little
John Barr, weaver in Condorrat.                                       man Witnesses were called for the purpose of prov-
William Smith, we ver there.                                           ing that the prisoner was one of the persons concernod    
Benjamen Moir, labourer in Glasgow.                         	in the treasonable proceedings.    The whole of prison-
Allan Murchy, blacksmith there                                  	ers, with the exception of Hardy, who was tried yester
Alexander Latier or Latimer, weaver there.            	day, were at the bar.  Saturday morning at two o'clock,
Alexander Johnston_ weaver there.                          	the jury returned a verdict of Guilty on a 2nd  couut,   
Andrew White, bookbinder there.                             	for levying war.,  
David Thomson, weaver there;                                  
James Wright, tailor there                                        
William Clackson or Clarkson, shoemaker there,	
Thomas Pike or Ponk, muslin-singer there.                     	
Robert Gray, weaver there.                                      	Upon James Clelland being put to the bar, Mr Jef-
James Cleland, smith there.                                     	frey as counsel for the prisoners, he had advised them
Alexander Hart, cabinet-maker there, and                  	that if they were really conscious of the guilt charged
Thomas M Fatlane, weaver at Condorrat.                   	against them; their  wisest course would be to retract 
						their plea of Not Guiuy,  and acknowledge their guilt
The indictment having been read over, (charging       	in open cour, and he believed thty were now ready to
them with treason in four diffrent counts) the prison-       	Withdraw that plea.
ers severally pleaded Not Guilty.    Hardie's trial was
first proceeded in.                                                         	Lord President Hope stated that there was no dis-
						cretion on the part of the Court, and we can do noth-
Mr. Jeffrey, in a very long speech, insisted that Mr.       	ing upon the plea of Guilty, cut pronounce upon them
Serjeant Hullock was not entitled to plead before the        	the same judgment that we pronounce upon those pri.
Court, he being an English barrister.    The objection        	coners who have been tried and regularly convicted.
was repelled.                                                                 They must trust to the mercy and clemency of the
			                                          Crown.

The Lord Advocate then addressed the Jury, laying           The remainder of the prisoners then pled  Guilty'
down the law of High Treason.    The evidence went       and the Court adjourned to the 31st  current.  
to connect the Bonnymuir business with the proposed                                                 Printed for John' Muir.Trials & Sentences

Of all the different Prisoners who have  stood their Trials  before  the

Circuit Court of Justiciary, which commenced on Monday last,when

TWO YOUNG MEN    

were sentenced to be Executed on Wednesday the 29th of October
next, for Robbery.

Glasgow, September 22, 1823—This day
the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened
here by the Lords Justice Clerk and Hermand
and after the usual ceremonies had been gone
over, the following persons were put on trial:

Alex. M'Niel alias Campbell, and W m. M'-
Pherson alias Jones, for housebreaking and
theft in Greenock. Outlawed.

J. Lod or Logg and Jas. M'Cargal, for as-
sault. Outlawed.

J. Reilly & Mary M'Adam, for housebreak-
ing and theft in Lochwinnoch; the former to
be transported 14 years; and the latter dismis-
sed from the bar.

Peter Rice, robbery in Greenock; transpor-
ted for life. 

Cornelins M'Kean Wm. M'Kerl, alias Cor-
nelius M' 'Kan, housebreaking & theft; seven.
years transportation.

John Shaw, flesher, from Greenock, for vio-
lently abusing his wife; 14 years transportation

W m. Montogomery, theft in Greenock; 14
years transportation.

A. M'Dougall, stealing copper in Greenock;
18 months in Paisley Bridewell.

J. Sinclair and H. M'Daugall, housebreak-
ing and theft in Paisley; 7 years transportation.

D. Graham and H. M'Grigor, assault; the
former three months imprisonment, and the
larter acquitted.               

George Campbell, murder; outlawed for
not appearing.

Mary Little, theft; 14 years transportation.

A. M'Phie, J. Baird, A. Adamson, & W.
Winning, accused of breaking down the dyke
at Wes-thorn, belonging to Mr.  T. Harvie;
pleaded guilty and were sentenced to 6 months
imprisonment, and to give bonds for L.50 to.
keep the peace for three years.

Edward M'Caffer,   Peter   M'Queen,   and
Francis Cain, accused of assaulting and rob-
blng. James Maxwell, coppersmith, of a gold
watch, with gold chain, and two gold seals,
a purse containing eight pound notes, some
silver, and his hat, on the 9th of July last,
pleaded Not Guilty.                         

A number of witnesses were examined, and
the Jury returned a verdict finding the pri-
soners guilty, but recommended M'Queen to
mercy. His Lordship then sentenced M'Caffer
and Cain to be executed at Glasgow on Wed-
nesday the 29th of October next, and M'Queen
transported for life.

Archd- Knox, for stabbing and wounding;
7 years transportation.

William Rentoul, debauching young girls;
outlawed.

Robert Paterson, assault; outlawed.

Mary Horn, for the murder of Janet M'La-
ren, a deaf and dumb woman, by striking her
on the head with a large hammer, in a fit of
jealousy on the 2d of August lust, was found
guilty, but not with a malicious intent. To
be sent to Edinburgh to receive sentence.

Wm. Cain (brother of Francis Cain capitally
condemned), theft; to be tried by the Sheriff.

Jas. Barton, sheriff-officer, from Greenock,
theft; honourably acquitted.

James Redpath, plane-maker, for fracturing
the skull of Wm. Campbell, labourer, of which
wound fee died, was found guilty of culpable
homicide. 14 years transportation.

Thursday--The Court met at nine o'clock.

William Gemmil, forgery; outlawed,

J. Curr, deforcing a messenger; outlawed.

John Duncan, accused falsehood, fraud, &
wilful imposition; outlawed

Margaret Bishop, theft; 6 months Bridewell.

G. Galbraith, theft; 12 months in Bridewell.

William M'Garvie, from Paisley, assault ;
sentenced to be whipped through Paisley any
day that the Magistrates may think proper,
and to be transported for 14 years.

		Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.TRIALS & SENTENCES.

Glasgow, April 18th, 1822.—The Court has gone through the following Cases .

MATHEW  WILSON, charged with stealing upon the 29th Dec. 9 silk handkerchiefs, and
15 yards of Queen's Cloth, from Francis Gemmill, Paisley, and being habit and repute a
thief, plea Guilty, and was sentenced to 14 years' transportation.

JAMES FLEMING, charged with stealing two cows from John Waddell, New Monkl and,
upon 13th September last, pled Guilty. Sentenced to transportation for life.

ACNES EASTON indicted for concealment of pregnancy at Lesmahagow, pleaded Guilty,
and was sentenced to 4 months' imprisonment.

THOMAS STODDART was next put to the bar, for entering a stable at Corbiehall, parish of
Carstairs, on 28th Dec. last, and stealing two one pound notes, 17s. in silver, and various
articles of clothing. He pled Guilty, and was sentenced to be transported for 7 years.

ALEXANDER FRAME, for stealing 12 pair of gloves from Mr Proudfoot, glover, Glasgow,
on the 16th Feb. last, pled Guilty, and was sentenced to 14 years' transportation.

DANIEL RANKINE, accused of entering the house of Janet Wilkie, Portugal Street, Gor-
bals, and stealing several notes, 2 crown pieces, 9s. in silver, 7 silver tea spoons, a gold
chain, a gold ring, and a number of papers, on the 2d Oct. last, pled Guilty, but was re-
commended to mercy for his youth, and was sentenced to be Hanged on  the 5th June.

JOHN PACE and JOHn  M'PHERSON for discharging a loaded  fowling  piece at James Orr,
collier, Kilburnie, on the 6th Feb. last, bv which he was so   severely wounded that he died
on the 13th, pled Not Guilty.  The  [   ]  was found Not Proven, and they  were dismissed

ThOMAS COOK accused of murder, pled Not Guilty. The  jury brought in a verdict or
culpable homicide, and he was sentenced to 6 months' imprisonment.

JOHN RANKINE charged with entering the house of Isobel Dick, Rottenrow Street, on
the 15th Jan. last, by ineans of false  keys, and stealing a quantity of wearing apparel, pled
Guilty to the reset only, and was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment.

ROBERT CAMpbell, for breaking the house of John Nielson, spirit-dealer, Camlachie, en
the 25th November, and stealing a quantity of books, and ,of being habit and repute a thief,
pled Not Guilty. He was found Guilty, and sentenced to transportation for life.

HELEN- GORIE and JAMeS MUSHAT, charged with stealing wearing apparel, from Margaret
Ritchie, Grahamston, Glasgow, on the 23d Feb. pled Not Guilty, and was dismissed from
the bar. Helen Gorrie: pled Guilty, but being unwell, was removed from the bar.

ROBERT TENNANT alias Lawrence Tennant alias Robert Lawrence 'Tennant, charged with falsehood, fraud
and forgery. on the 9th February last plad,  Guilty, and was sentenced to be transported for 7 years.

HELEN RENNE charged with  having, on the 30th December last, administered a quantity of arsenic to her   
natural child, a boy between 9 and 10 months old, by which he died in a few hours.     After a long trial, the jury
gave-in a verdict of Not Guilty, and after a suitable advice, she was dismissed from the bar.

The Court next proceeded to the trial of WILLIAM CAMPBELL, JAMES KERR, and WILLM. WELSH,
for breaking the shop of Wm. Whyte, dyer, Giasgow, on the 3d Jan. last, and being habit and repute thieves, end

CATHRINE  MILLER or YOUNG, HELEN YOUNG or MAXWELL, and MARY ANDERSON, for resrt-
ting said goods, pled Not Guilty.    Campbell was found Guilty, and sentenced to be Executed or. Wednesday the
29th of May next.    The lible against Kerr and Welsh was found Not Proven and  they were dismissed.    The two
woman were found Guilty of the reset ; the one was sentenced to 18 and the other to 6 months imprisonment.

THOs  BROWN, JAMES HOLMES alias LETTERS, and MART JARVIS alias NIMMO, accused of three
different acts of theft at Paislcy on the 7th Feb last; their ease is to be tried at  Edinburgh.

ANDREW GOVAN, for stealing silk handkerchief from the shop of Mr A. Paterson, haberdasher, Trongate,
on the 1st March, pled Guilty, ana was sentenced to 14-years' transportation                                       .

ANDREW PEEBLES, for staling a quantity of wearing apparel from the house of William Gillespie, William
street, Calton in Oct. last and being habit and repute a thief, pled Guilty, and is to be transported for life.

HILL BOYD HAY,for stealing  from a bleaching green in Laurieston on the 14th last, and being repute a
thief was found Guilty, and is to be transported 14years.

DONALD DAVIDSON, charged with falsehood, forgery and wilful imposition was next put to the bar. He was
found Guilty, and after suitable admonition from the Judge,he was sentenced to be Hanged on the 29th May.

THOMAS  DON ACHY  JOHN  DICK, ARCHD TORRANCE and  ALEK and ALeXR. LOWE, accused of housebreak-
ing and theft, by stealing a quantity of wine and  run from a cellar in Gorhals; Donnachy was found Guilty, and
was sentenced to be Hanged on the 5th June next; the other three pled Guilty, and are to be transported 14 years

THOs. BROWN and ROBr. STEVENSON, for stealing a silk badkerchief and a mutch from the  house of
Names Young, Paisley; the diet was deserted against Brown and the libel Not proven against stevenson.

GEO. BUCKLEY, for breaking the house of John Carfrae, Dovehill, with intent to steal. to go to Edinnburgh  

RICHARD CAMOPBELL, JOHN MMILLAN, JOHN CAMPBELL, JAMES BROWN, ROBr. HALL,

JAMES MUNRO, and Wm. GREEN, charged with mobbing and rioting on the 17th feb. last, pled Not Guilty
R. Campbell, John M Millan Jhon campbell, James Brown and James Mumro, were Guilty , and were sen
tenced to transporatation for 14 years, and R. Campbell to be publicity whipped. The other two were dismissed. 

W. BORTHWICK for the Sentinel Office, and R. LEES, for seducing artizans ; both cases go to Edinburgh.

ROBt. YOUNG and JOHN MORRISON , for the stealing from a house in Paisley; to go to Edinburgh.

JAMES M'GRADY or MAGARDY, ALEX. DAVIES, JAMES CRAIGENS, JOHN MACCANINNIE,
[   ] Bole or Boyle on the 10th Nov . last ; the last four were outlawed, and M'Grady goes to Edinburgh.
CAMPBELL was found Guity of falsehood frud and imposition  sentenced to 18  months imprisonment.
JAMES KING accused of assaulting excise officers; the libel was found Not Proven
[    ] WOTHERSPOON AND ROBT . SMELLIE accused of perjury ' were outlawed.  MATHEW STEELE
[    ] to Edinburgh.- This finished the criminal business.

                                                                      W. CARSE, PRINTER, GLASGOW.An account of the Trials and Sentences in the
Dumfries and Glasgow Circuits, when Four
persons werr sentenced to be Executed on the
first of June 1825. Also, the Enecution of
Mark Whitting and James Caines, whose
grandfather was banished, his father hanged
and himself the 4th son that has been hang-
ed; his   only surviving brother   was   appre-
hended lately for highway robbery.

GLASGOW,



The Circnit Court of Justiciary, opened at Glasgow on Tues-
day, 26th April 1825, when the principal trial was that of
Kean, for wounding Graham, the cotton spinner, by a pistol-
shot...Sentenced to be whipped in front of the Glasgow jail
on the llth May, and thereafter banished tor life. There
were three more trials on Tuesday, of minor importance.
On Wednesday, 27th, there were six trials. On Thursday,
28th, rhere were ten trials, and 14 persons indicted. On
Friday, 29th, there were four trials.—One of these, James
Stevenson was fouud guilty of a highway robbery, and sen-
tenced to be Executed at Glasgow on the 1st of June next.
Another indictment hung over his head for breaking into a
jeweller's shop, and his behaviour; both during his trial and
passing the sentence, showed that he was fully convinced
that he would suffer for either one or other of these crimes.
He is about 20 or 22 years of age. An accomplice in the
crime of which he was found guilty was outlawed. Ou Sat-
urday, 30th, there were eleven trials, and sixteen persons
indicted On Monday, 2d May, there were four trials.
On Tuesday, 3d, a man and a woman convicted of house-
breaking and theft, were sentenced, the former to 14, and
the latter to 7 years'  transportation;

DUMFRIES,

Dumfries, April 23, 1824.

The Circuit Court of Justiciary was opeued here by Lords
Hermanb and Meckenzie...Robert Dundas. younger, of
Arniston, Deputy-Advocate.

Richard .Lestar, William Davies, and James Lestar; (the
last outlawed for not appearing,) were charged with breaking 
into the shop of Mr William Brown, merchant, Sanquhar,
and stealing therefrom a variety of gold and silver coins,
bank notes, and other articles, to the value of neatly L60.

The prisoners at firat pleaded guilty, but on the Deputy-
Advocate intimating that this was a case in which he conld
uot restrict the libel, they ofterwards tetracted their first plea,
and the trial proceeded.

William Brown, jun. is one of the tenants of the coal-pits
in the neighbourhood of Sauquhar, Remembers the Grieve
bringing him three lads to hire as colliers, it was about 7 at
night. He hired them, and gave Turnhull the Grieve 3s to
get lodgings for them. He took the money from a drawer
in the counter. Went to the shop at 11 o'clock for a candle,
at which time the premises were secura. Was wakened by
the maid in the morning at 7 o'clock, who told nim the front
door of the shop was ooen, and twc men standing at it. He
examined the premises in the presence, and fonnd that the
articles libelled were carried away. Three gold coins, a
guinea of the reign of Queen Anne, a thin gold coin of the
reign of Henry the Eigth, a gold piece of John the Fifth of
Portugal, a half-crown piece of William and Mary, with va-
rsous other coins, were shown him, all which he identified.
Witness on being asked to look at the prisoners, knew them
to be the lads he had htred,

The Jury found the panels Guilty, but in consequence of
their inevperience and youth, recommended them to mercy.
The prisoners were ordered to be Execnted on the 1st of June.

Monday week, 25th April, Mark Whitting and James
Caines were executed at Gloucester. The family of Caines
have long been notorious for their crimes. His grandfather
was transported, his father hanged, and Caines himself is the
fourth brother who has died by the hands of the executioner,
His fifth and only surviving brother was apprehended on
Thursday last, on a charge of highway robbery.

A Full and Particular Account of the
Trial and Senetnce of WILLIAM
THOMSON, JAMES THMSON,
and JOHN, FRAM, who are to be

Executed at Dalkeith, on Thursday 1st
March, 1827, for Highway Robbery.

YESTERDAY, Monday, 22d January, 1827,

 came on before the High Court of Justicary,
the trial of William Thomson, James Thomson,
and John Fram, labourers, accused of attacking and
assaulting, on the 30th November last, at or near
the foot of Langside Brae, in the parish of Dalkeith,
George Dickson, farmer, Cousland, who was return-
ing home from Dalkelth market, when they seized
hold of his horse ,and struck the said G. Dickson
several sever blows on the face, head, and breast,
with large wooden bludgeons, or other offencive
weapons, by which he was severly wounded, to the
great efusion of his blood ; and that they afterwards
robbed him of a silver hunting watch....a copy of
the Scotsman, and a letter addressed to Mrs Dick-
son, besides several memorandums.

George Dickson was in Dalkeith on the 30th day
of November,....he left it at 5 o'clock in the after-
noon, on horseback, quite sober. He took the di-
rect road by the Cow Bridge, and Langside Brae,
to Cousland. Thers is a plantation on the west
side of the brae, and on the east side there is a
smaller one, of about two acres. There is a small
burn at the bottom of the brae, near which there
were several piles of stones laid up for breaking.
He was at Langside Brae about 10 minutes past 5,
it was twilight; when at the foot of the brae, a
man started out from these stones, and took hold of
the reins of his horse. He had a large stick in his
hand, with which he made a stroke at witness. It
appeared to be a stick, neatly cut, having a large,
knot at one end. Witness gave his horse a touch
with his foot, upon which the animal reared, but
the moment he came down, another man seized
him on the other side. The horse reared several
times, witness always endeavouring to bring him. 
above his assailants, but every time he came to his
feet he was seized by one of the fellows. Witness
received a severe blow on the side of the head ; and
when the horse came to his feet the last time, one
of the men pulled out witness's watch, (which he
described) and some papers, which were in his side,
pocket ; also a newspaper, which was in his coat
pocket. Witness here identified a letter and some
papers : and stated, that he received in all, four se-
vere blows upon the head. He lost a great quan-
tity of blood. He said that there were four men
in the party, and one cried twice, ' Murder the-------,
murder him.'    Witness looked at the prisoners :
He said he knew them all by sight; they were all
of the party who robbed him.    Three of the four
men had on dark coloured clothes, and one had on a
red vest with stone coloured sleeves,...it was Fram
who was thus dressed.    It was William Thomson
who came forward and gave him the first blow : it
was Fram who cried out ' Murder him.'  A man, or
rather a boy (William Leslie) was brought into
Court, and identified as the fourth of the party. The
whole, or most of the party, had sticks newly cut_

The Lord Justice Clerk, in an address which oc-
cupied an hour and a half, laid before the jury the
whole case, as brought out in evidence.    After
which, the jury, without leaving the box, unaui-
mously found all the prisonrs guilty, but recomend-
ed James Thomson and John Fram to the mercy
of the crown.    They were then sentenced to be
executed on Thursday the 1st of March, at or near
Dalkeith, or such other place as the Sheriff should
fix upon.                         Some Account of JOHN SHERRY, who was Executed in
of the New Jail of Glasgow, on Wednesday the 1st of No
ber, 1815, pursuant to his Sentence, for Highway Robbery
the road leading from Glasgow to Paisley, on the 19th May

JOHN SHERRY, who this day under-
went the sentence  of  the  law,   was a
native  of Ireland,    and   was  born in the
Country of  Monaghan. He was about 29
years of age, and  has  left a wife and five
children, the oldest of whom is  about seven
years  of age, to lament  his  untimely end.

He was put to the weaving business, but
left  his parents when little more than eight 
years of age-a circumstance which he has
often regretted; for, after he left their pro-
tection, he soon fell a prey to bad company,
forsook his industry, went from  place to
place, and from one bad scene into another,
until he  committed the crime which this day
terminated his existence.

It is about ten years since he left Ireland,
and whether he worked at his trade in Scot-
land is a circumstance which could not be
learned-but it appears that he had recent-
ly fallen in with a set of bad men at Carlisle,
who were guilty of house-breaking, and one
of  whom was  apprehended and executed
for that  crime. Sherry was suspected of
being concerned in the affair, but, along
with others, made his escape. He was,         
however, afterwards apprehended at Glas-
gow, and remained in jail a week, when he
was sent off to Carlisle, under the care of a
Messenger, who came here for the purpose
of conducting him thither. The  mode of
conveyance was the top of the coach, the 
inside being  full; but, on the road to Car-
lisle, Sherry complained that  he was in  great
pain, on account of his arms  being too hard
bound, and requested the Messenger to ease
the cords, in order that he might travel a 
little more comfortably. This request be-
ing humanely complied with, and Sherry
now finding he could use his arms with con-
siderable freedom, watched an opportunity,
sprung from the top of the coach, and, be
fore the astonished Messenger could get
down, was out of sight, and succeeded in
making his escape.

He was no more heard of till he committed
the robbery on the Paisley road, in May last,
and for which he was apprehended at Glas-
gow, in June, and tried and condem[ned]
the last Circuit.

Shortly after his condemnation he [was]
very penitent, and seemed sincerely resig[ned]
to his fate. He was a Catholic and
carefully attended by the Re\ill\ Mr. S (?)
one  of the Clergymen of that persuas[ion]
but he made no objection, to converse
other pious Gentlemen, of a different
session, who waited on him.

Sherry was married when about ninete[en]
years of age, and seemed always to have
affectionate regard for his wife,who visited
him frequtently during his confinement.

A few days before his execution, he sent
for   his   wife's   Bible in order to mark
several portions of Scripture, which had
struck himself forcibly. The last interview
he had with his wife was a very affecting
one, and such as to excite the liveliest emo-
tions of sympathy.

He was very grateful for the humane at-
tention paid him by every person under
whose immediate care he was during his 
confinement, often expressed himself to that 
effect, and took an affecting farewel of them
previous to leaving the Jail.

It is hoped that the fate  of  this unfortun-
are young man will be a warning to the pro-
fligate, and open their eyes to a sense of the
dreadful situation they place themselves in
when they forsake the paths of honourable
industry to procure a wretched and ignoble
subsistence by robbing others on the public
highways.

Whenever a man feels himself inclined 
to abandon  the course by which he can alone
come honestly through life, let him look to
the fate of Sherry, ignominiously cut off in
the very days of his youth; and let him re-
member, that the same awful fate awaits him,
when overtaken by the arm of justice,
which, sooner or later, never fails to reach
the guilty, and  convince   them that they
cannot possibly long exist by crime.

Printed by T. Duncan, 159, Saltmarket, Glasgow.An account of the proceedings at the Lancaster Assizes against the
Rioters in Lancashire; when no less than 35 Men and 7 Women
received the awful sentence of Death on Monday last, for destroy-
ing the Steam-power Looms ; Also, the excellent Address of the
Judge on passing Sentence, with the Names of the unfortunate
Prisoners.                                                  

LANCASTER, MONDAY, AUGUST 21, 1826.

This day the sentence of Death was recorded against no less than 35 men and 7 women,
convicted of destroying different Steam Loom Factories &c., in Lancashire.

The prisoners having been placed, 42 in the dock, in sets, his Lordship addressed them
as follows:------

Prisoners—I have desired that you might be hrought up here, a few at a time. I lament 
most deeply that there are no fewer than 42 follow-creatures under capital conviction for a
most heinous offence. It is impossible for a country governed by law, that it should be
permitted to persons to endeavour to relieve their own distresses by violence. There has
been, God knows, a great pressure of distress in this country, but it cannot be permitted
to individuals to carve out their own relief. You are most deluded persons; for you have
been destroying the means by which you were to live, and taking out of the hands of those
who were disposed to serve you, the means by which they could do so. It is of high im-
portance that these things should not be tolerated, and that men guilty of such offences
should receive a very severe punishment. The law has affixed to the crime of which you
have been guilty, the punishment of Death. It is not my intention, however, to carry that
sentence into full effect, and I shall recommend it to his Majesty to be pleased to pardon
you so far as your lives are concerned. My motives for so doing are these—that I think it
probable that the lenity which is about to be shown to you will have a due effect upon your
minds, and that what you have already seen and heard will convince you that the law is able
to reach you even to the extent of your lives for these offences, and that it is your own in-
terest, happiness and comfort, to lead quiet and respectable lives. The injury which you do
to your families by these courses cannot be calculated, because, if parents, brothers, and
sons, will commit offences, they must involve in their punishment their innocent relatives.
Another motive for my lenity is, that most of those who have been convicted are extremely
young persons, and, although their outrages have been dreadful and disgraceful as against
property, I have not found any instance, with a single exception, of pessonal violence being
resorted to.

I have said that most of you are young: I must make an exception to that observation,
in one of the prisoners now standing before me, viz. James Chambers, who is the oldest
amongst you, and the most grievous offender, because he has been convicted of two capital
felonies, in which he took the most active and riotous part, and also of an offence not capi-
tal, under another statute. It was my intention at one time, and I may say for several
days, to have made him an example by taking his life; but I shall not select him singly on
this occasion, and therefore I shall not clect him singly on this occasion, and therefore I
shall transmit his name, amongst others, for His Majesty's gracions  consideration. But I
would not have you consider that, although I transmit this recommendation, those who ad-
vise His Majesty may not think it necessary to carry the sentence into full effect; but I
hope, I indeed believe, that this will not be the case. Do not,. however, flatter yourselves
too strongly, that you will escape without very severe punishment. Another motive which
has induced me to take the course I have taken, is, that the respectable Juries who have
tried you, have recommended the first six of you to mercy; and that on a ground which is
applicable to all the cases, namely, the severe pressure of the times. I have nothing more
to say, but that I earnestly trust that the dredful example of punishment which is now
about to be made, and which must be made, though I trust it will not reach the lives of any
at you, will convince you that no happiness can result from a life of turbulence and riot, but
that peace and good order are always conducive to the interest and happiness of men. 

The following are the prisoners convicted:—James Riding, Wm. Sutcliffe, Rd. Kay, Jas.
Latham, James Ormerod, James Haworth, James Chambers, Simeon Wright, Rd. Entwisle,
Wm. Winder, John Haworth, Henry Melling, Thomas Lomax, Thos. Greenhalgh, James
Crowshaw, Thos. Leaver, Isaac Hindle, Thos. Dickinson, James Leaver, Edw. Houghton,
Thos. Ashworth, Thos. Sharples, Rt. Butterworth, James Aspden, James Shorrock; Alext
Norris, John Orrell, Thos. Emett, Mary Hidle, Betty Haworth, Ann Eatwisle, Mary Mars-
den, Margaret Yates, Betty Cunliffe, Josh. Clayton, John Hoyle, Mark Cockerill, Jonah
Baldwin, Ann Ingham, Lawrence Hardman, Geo. Ashworth, John Ashworth.

John Muir, printer, Glasgow.HEATHER JOCK.

Heather Jock's noo awa,
Heather Jock's noo awa,
The muircock noo may crously craw,
Since Heather Jeck's noo awa.

Heather Jock was stark and grim,
Faught wi' a' would fecht wi' him;
Swank and supple, sharp and thin,
Fine for gaun against the win':
Tawnie face and tousie hair,
In his cleading unco bare,
Curs'd and swore whene'er he spoke,
Nane could equal Heather Jock.—Chorus.

Jock kent ilka bore and bole,
Could creep through a wee bit hole,
Quietly pilfer eggs and cheese,
Dunts o' bacon, skeps o' bees;
Sip the kirn, and steal the butter,
Nail the hens without a flutter;
Na ; the watchfu' wily cock
Durstna craw for Heather Jock.— Chorus.

Eppie Blaikie lost her goun
She cost sae dear at borough toun;
Sandy Tamson's Sunday wig
Left the house to rin the rig:
Jenny Baxter's blankets a'
Took a thocht to slip awa';
And a' the weans' bit printed frocks—
Wha was the theif but Heather Jock.— Ch.

Jock was nae religious youth,
For at the priest he thraw'd his mouth,
He wadna say a grace nor pray,
But played his pipes on Sabbath-day ;
Rob'd the kirk o' bane and book,
Everything would lift—he took;
He didna leave the w ather cock,
Sic a theif was Heather Jock.—Chorus.

Nane wi' Jock could draw a tricker,
'Mang the miur-fowl he was sicker,
He watch'd the wild ducks at the springs,
And bang'd the  hares in hempen strings,
Blazed the burns, and spear'd the fish,
Jock had mony a danty dish ;
The best o' muir-fowl and back-cock,
Aye graced the board o' Heather Jock.— Ch,

Nane wi' Jock had ony say
At the neive or cudgel play,
Jock for bolt nor bar ne'er staid.
Till ance the  jail his courage laid;
Then the judge without delay,
Sent him   aff to Botany  Bay,
And bade him mend the laws he broke,
And never mair play Heather Jock.— Chorus.Heather Jock.

Heather Jock's noo awa,
Heather Jock's noo awa;
The muircock noo may crousely  craw,
Since Heather Jock's noo awa.

Heather Jock was stark and grim,
Faucht wi' a' would fetch wi' him ;
Swamp and supple, sharp and thin,
Fine for gaun against the win';
Tawnie face and tousie hair,
In his cleading unco bare,
Curs'd and swore whene er he spoke
Nane could equal Heather Jock.

Jock kent ilka hore and bole.
Could creep through a wee bit hole,
Quiet,   pilfer eggs and cheese,
Dunts o  bacon, skeps o' bees,
Sip the kirn and steal the butter,
Nail the hens without a flutter;
No! the watchin' wily  cock,
Durstna craw for Heather Jock.

Epple Blaikie lost her goun,
She coft she dear at borough toun;
Sandie Tamson's sunday wig,
Left the hoose to rin the rig,
Jenny Baxter's blankets a,
Took a thoucht to slipp awa,
An' a' the weans bit printed frocks—
Wha was the thief but Heather Jock.

Fock was nae religious youth.
For at the priest he thraw'd his mouth
He wadna say a grace nor pray.
But play'd his pipes on Sabbath day;
Robbed the kirk o' baun and book, 
Everything would lift—he took;
He didna lea the weather cock,
Sic a thief was Heather Jock.

Nane wi' Jock could draw a tricker,
Amang the muir fowl he was secker,
He watched the wild ducks at the spring,
And hang'd the hairs wi' hempin strings', 
Bleez'd the burn and spear'd the fish ;
Jock had mony a denty dish ;
The best of muir fowl and black cock,
E'er greaz'd the beard o' Heather Jock.

Nase wi' Jock had ony say,
At the neve of cudgle play;
Jock for bar or holt ne'er stood,
Till once the jail his courage laid,
Then the judge, without delay,
Sent him off to Botany Bay,
And bid him mind the laws he broke.
And never mair play Heather Jock.TheTragedy of Tony Aston, Stage-Player :

OR,

His last SPEECH to his Followers ;

POOR  Tony, have you serv'd the Devil so long?
Debauch'd the Youth with my lascivious Song ;
I was your faithful pimp, and stroll'd about,
To bring you Vassals, and I found them out.
O! I have gain'd three hundred in a Day,
Secur'd them in your Service   by a PLAY:
And yet,  base Devil,   for  all   my   faithful Work,
You suffer'd me for to be drum'd at   York ;
Then I despair'd for ever to  have  Bread,
Unless  I pick'd it up be   North the Tweed;
I thought  a People, who   their Country ---,
Wou'd love a Rogue, like me, and tip me Gold :
And so  they wou'd,  had not the  preaching Train,
And pious  MAGISTRATES my  projects slain.
I rais'd Hell's Bulwark in it's chiefest Town;
But LAW and GOSPEL quickly pull'd it  down;
I alter'd  Love for Love in ev'ry  Scene;
And made  a modest Play, a Farce  profane :
And mangl'd Hamlet Prince of Denmark so,
Surely his Ghost complain'd, and wrought my Woe ;
I was the Poet, and the Truth's Betrayer,
I've been the very Devil of a Player.

PITY me Sirs, for desperate is my Case;
I leave  your City without Gold or Grace.
How cou'd I think to be a  thriving  Player,
Who fix'd my Kingdom in the House of Pray'r?

FAREWEL you Beaus and Belles, my faithful Flock
Throw off Hell's Chains, and take the Gospel Yoke.A Genuine copy of a most affecting
letter sent by one of these young men,
lately executed, to a young woman
belonging to Edinburgh, with whom
he has carried on correspondence for
some years, with his dying advice and
request to her, which is published with
her own consent.

         Edinburgh 24th January 1824.

Dear____—, I address you through the medium of Mr ———,
a man who has, by his distinguished kindness and pious ex
hortations, rendered himself dear to my soul; and whose un-
weared exertions towards the promotion of my eternal well-
being, constrain me to supplicate, with unfeigned earnestness,
the blessing of that Being who alone can reward him for his
labours of love, to deecend and abide upon  him and all with
whom he is connected.

You may perhaps be surprised at my not writing this last
epistle with my own hands: but I can assure you this task I
would willingly have performed, had I been capable of settling
my mind for that space of time. Let this suffice, therefore,
for my tendering you, in this way, the following advice.

In commencing this letter, reflection on  the numerous
scenes of innocent mirth through which we have passed, and
the consideration that this is the last opportunity I shall ever
have of addressing one for whom, while life remains, I shall
bear the most profound respect, force a sting upon my dis-
turbed mind, and almost succeed in driving me to the brink
of despair. But there is a balm for every wound. When,
I look back upon the actions which have stained with infamy
the years that are past, my Soul would assuredly sink within
me, did not the blessed volume of divine inspiration point
out to the vilest of the race of Adam, a fountain where
every stain may be washed away, every transgression obliter-
ated. Yes, blessed be God,  I have been brought to the
knowledge of that Saviour, by the merits of whose all-atoning
sacrifice alone, the chief of sinners may obtain the mercy and
forgiveness of an offened Deity. The hardened conduct
which I displayed On hearing of Douglas' respite, I now sin-
cerely regret; and hope that he will take into sarious con-
sideration" his awful situation before the Majesty of heaver,
and earnestly set about the great and important work of his
soul's salvation. And now., that I am about to leave this
vale of sin and sorrowing, the following short exhortation.
will not, I hope, be unreasanable.                                         .

Peruse carefully, the sacred Scriptures, for in them are con-
tained the words of eternal life. Cast an glance at your by-
past life, and redeem the time as those days have been evil.
Flee, I beseech you, to that Rock of Ages, who is a hiding
from the storm, and a covert from the tempest. Enlist
speedily under the banners of the great Captain of Salvation,
in the assurance that through him who hath overcome, you
will be made more than conqueror. And that the God of
all grsee may conduct you by his counsel, and afterwards re
ceive yon to his glory, is the heartfelt wish of your most
sincere friend.

The above letter was given un to the young woman, and
by the care and earnestness with which she peruses it daily,
it is hoped that it will be a compass to steer her through this
sinful and dreary world, by following the dying advice of
one she loved, and who now lies mouldering in the dust.
This was copied from the original, by a person whom the
young woman shewed it to, and is allowed to be printed with
her consent. 

PROCEEDINGS OF THE 

Circuit Court of

Justiciary

Trial and sentence of all the different persons who have been
tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which met here
on Tuesday, 7th September.

GLASGOW, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7,1830.—This day the Circuit Court
of Justiciary was opened here by Lords Gillies and Pitmilly, and after the usual so-
lemnities had been gone through, the Court proceeded to the trial of the following
persons:—

John Smith, from Dumbartonshire, for housebreaking, was found guilty; 14 years
transportation.

John Ross, George Bertram, Peter Pellan, Alex,  Donald, Hugh  M'Casker, from
Renfrewshire, for robbery, pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

John Wemyss, from Greenock, for murder, pled guilty to the assault; 7 years
transportation.

James Ewing, from Renfrewshire, for theft, breach of trust, fraud, and wilful im-
position; pled guilty; 12 months in Paisley Bridewell.

Betty Ann Blair Kelly, theft by housebreaking, and habit and repute, pled guilty;
7 years transportation.                       

Mary Connor and Mary Jones, for theft, Connor pleaded guilty, ann Jones not
guilty; Jones, was found guilty; 14 years transportation; Connor, seven years.

Mary Hamilton, from Renfrewshire, for child-murder, was dismissed from the bar.
Catherine Macfarlane, from Paisley, for theft, was found guilty; 14 years trans-
portation.

Thos. Thomson and Wm. Dunnett, for theft by housebreaking, pled guilty; 14
years transportation; Charles Cearns, for reset, was outlawed.

John M'Dougall, from Greenock, for theft, was dismissed from the bar.
Andrew Docharty, for horse.stealing, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
Alex. Robbie, from Paisley, for assault, was found guilty; sentence delayed.

Alex. Adam, from Greenock, for theft from a steam-boat, was found guilty; trans-
portation for life.

John Muir, Printer, Glasgow.A Particular Account of the Trial and Sen,
tence of the Rev, Joseph Robertson, and
W. Pearson, accused of Falshood, Fraud &
Forgery, and of celebrating unlawful mar-
riages, on Wednesday March 18, 1818.

ON Wednesday came on the trial
  of the Rev. Joseph Robertson,
minister of the gospel in Edinburgh
and William Pearson, spirit-dealer
in Canongate, accused of falsehood,
fraud, and forgery, and of celebrat-
ing unlawful marriages.

The pannels, as we stated on a
former day, had pleaded not guilty,
and having again adhered to that
plea, a Jnry was chosen, and the
trial proceeded. Alexander Ross
sesson clerk of North Leith ; knows
Mr. Robertson, he never but once
applied to the witness for a certifi-
cate of proclomation of bam and
that was about three years ago.
And being shown a certificate in
name of Mooney a soldier in the
88th regiment, and a Girl named
Mr. Pherson, he  declares it to be a
forgery and the name Alexander
Ross, at the bottom of it not to be
the witness's hand writing : and a
certificate in favour of a soldier of
the 88th, named Fitzgerald, and a

 girl named Urquhart, shown to him;

he also declares to be a forgery.

Alexander Ross, jun. son of the
preceding witness, also declared,
that the two certificates  are not the
writing of his father.

Sarah Urquhart, late servant to
Mr. Grant of Rothiemurchus Wit,
ness was married in October last
to Edward Fitzgerald, a private in
the 88th Regiment, by the Rev,
Mr. Robertson, She and her hus-
band, with Mooney and Margere:
M 'Pherson, called upon Mr R. on
on a Sunday, about 11 o'clock, and
told him they wanted to be married,
he said he would do nothing then
	as he was going to church, but told
them to come back at one o'clock.
They returned at that hour, and
Mr R. shewed them into a little
room, and said he would send his
maid servant along with the men to
a place where they would get
lines. The men went away for the
lines, and came lack, saving they
had been refused them. Mr R.
then desired them to go to one Pear-
son's and perhaps he might get lines
tor them. They accordingly went
down to Pearson's; and the men
went into the house, and Pearson
went with them to endeavour to get
marriage lines. They went along
the South Bridge, but the men
came back, saying they had been
refused lines there already. They
went down to Pearson's, and shortly
after Mr R. came and said he did
not know What to do with them.
Pearson said to him he dared to say he might
marry them, for be might recollect that they
had got a thing of that kind done before,
and had got the lines after, and had sent
them after the parties. Mr R. said he
thought he recollected that they had done
that ; and Pearson and Mr R. then walk-
ed into another room, leaving the witness and
the other three by themselves. Pearson

came back, and asked 7s 6d. from each cou-
ple to get the marriage lines. The men
had not so much money, but Pearson said,
the parson could  not think of doing it unite
they got the money ; and said that if they
would be quick  and  get it, he would remain
as he was not in a hurry. Witness and the o-

ther girl went for the money , and were not

many minutes absent; when they came back

Mr R.was sitting with  the two men, and

writing the little lines  he gave them. Fits-

gerald gave 7s 6d for each of the lines, and
5s 10 Mr R. who put  it in his pocket, giv-
ing the 15s to  Pearson to get the lines, Pear-
son said that if they would call at either his
house or Mr Robertson's, any day after
Monday, the lines would be ready for them.
They were then married, and Mr. R. gave
witness a line, certifying that she and Fits-
gerald were married before witnesses. On
Tuesday or Wednesday after the marriage,
the other girl, M 'Pherson, went for the lines
but Mr R. said they could not get them un-
less the whole four were present, and the men
were at Perth. M ' Pherson wrote to the
men, who answered and told her to go to
Mr R. and demand the lines or the money.
Witness and M 'Pherson then went to Mr R.
and showed him the letter and he told them
to go to Pearson, which they did, and
said he was afraid they could not get them
but desired them to call upon him to-mor-
row, when he would try and get them ; they
called again at Pearson's next day, and he
said he had got them, and desired them to
go to Mr R.'s. and he would follow. They
went  to Mr R.'s and he said he was very
happy they had got; the lines, and Pearson
immediately came in. Mr R. then took the
lines, and wrote something on them.
Pearson said that they were indebted to him.
for the trouble he had had, but Mr R. said 
he had better give them something than take 

any thing from them.

     Edward Fitzgerald, Private in the 88th

regiment, gave similar evidence as to the

marriage betwixt him and the preceding

witness.   When he went first to Mr R. he
asked him if he had a line from his officer,

and he said no; he desired him to come 

back at one o'clock, when he sent his ser-
vant maid along with witness and  Moony
to one Paisley, the Session clerk, who re-
fused to give the lines, because witness had

no line from his commanding officer. Upon

returning to Mr R. he said he did not
know what to do with them, as it was most-
ly beyond his power to marry them. He
then gave witness a line to Pearson, and
said he might be apt to get the lines for
them. Pearson said he would do every
thing in his power to get Mr R. to marry
them, and desired the whole four to come
down to his house at four o'clock, and Mr
R. would be there. After four o'clock the
whole went to Pearson's, and he and Mr

R. went into a room, and had some conver

sation. Pearson then came  and asked if
they were ready, witness answered they were,
and Mr R. then came into the room. Mr
R. then  desired them them to leave 7s 6d.
a piece for the  lines, and 2s 6d a  piece for
the marriage, The two women then went
away for the money, and parties were

married.

       Margaret Macpherson corroborated, in 

every particular, the testimony of Sarah

Urquhart ,  and  John  Monney ,  private in

the 88th , gave similar  evidence  to that of

Fitzgarald.

   After some remarks from the Lords Suc-
coth and Reston. Lord Gillies addressed
the prisoners  on  the  nature of  their  crime.
He then sentenced both prisoners to three

months confinement in the Jail of Canongate

and Mr Robertson thereafter to be banish-
ed Scotland for life, in terms of the statuto
and Pearson for the period of fourteen years
with the usual certifications.

Edinburgh: Printed for R. Lindsay,

PRICE ONE PENNY.A particular Account of the Trial and Sentences of all the
prisoners who have stood their trials at the present   Circuit
Court, which commenced at  Glasgow, on  Wednesday 26th
April, 1820.

This day, the Circuit Court was opened here, by the    		it well down previous to going to church.    The window
Hon. Lords Gillies and Succoth.                                         	looked into the stables of James Hannah ; it bad not been
Matthew Orr and David Jardine,   accused  of theft—    		lifted up, but forced in, and his chest which stood under
Jardine was outlawed, and Orr plead not guilty, and was    	the window was broken open, and four pound notes and
dismissed from the bar.                                                       	one guinea note a silver  watch, and several neckcloths
Robert Wylie and Agnes Richardson or Findlater, the    		and handkerchiefs, carried away.    There was about 100l.
former of theft, and the latter for reset—Wylie sentenced    	below his clothes, which had  not been noticed  by the
to   be   transported   for   seven   years,    and   Richard-    	theives.    The neighbours and witness suspected M'Guire.
son re-committed en a new  warraot.                                       	who  lived opposite, and   was often in his house,   and
John Sinclair, accused of theft and being habit and re-    		wrought in the stables fronting the back window in ques-
pute a thief; plead not guilty ; he was dismissed from the     	tion.    Witness went to Park's lodgings, as the neighbours
bar.                                                                                    	told him that he and M'Guire had been seen together some
Francis Quin alias Queen, accused of housebreaking    		time before, but he was not within.    He then went to the
and theft; the diet was deserted.                                                  	Police Office, and got two officers to go in search of the
Daniel Craig, Thomas Brown, James Drans;  and John         	suspected persons.
Wilson, accused of housebreaking and theft; Craig plead
guilty, and sentenced to 14 years' transportation ; Brown,        	Donald Cameron, criminal officer, recollects of Highet
Deans, and Witsen was outlawed for not appearing.           	giving information on  a Sunday that  his house had been
Thomas Hunter,  accused of housebeaking and theft,     		broken into, and expressing his suspicion that two lads of
pled not guilty; he was found guilty, and sentenced to 14    	the names of M'Guire. and Park were. guilty, and wished
years' transportation.                                                        	a  search.to be made for them ; after  some time spent in
John Halliday, accused of assaulting and slabbing Jas .     	looking for them, M'Guire was at length discovered walk-
Fitzgerald, (one of the City O'fficers,) in the belly with a    		ing with a woman in Bridgegate ; he was searched on the
large hnife, on the 8'h of Sept. last, .in the Saltmarlret-    		street, and sent to the Police Office; they then went along
Street, was brought to the bar; he pleaded Not Guilty.      		with M'Guire's aunt to her house, where they saw Park
After examining several  witnesses, the Jury, without    		and  Hanton, who confessed  that they had broken into
retling, found   the  prisoner Guilty, and   was Sentenced         	Highet's house.
to seven years transportation.                                                                              
John Boyle and James Daily, accused of breaking into        	Donald Frazer corroborated the evidence of Cameron,
she house of Mr. John Black, merchant, in, Jamaica Street,     	Hanton  called him   aside in  M'Guire's aunt's ;  told him
on the 7th Sept  1819, and stealing two dozen of cambric    	that the watch was in the house, and that Park was as
neckcloths, and   several  other  articles.       Boyle  pleaded    	guilty as himself;  witness asked him where the pocket-
Guilty,  and was sentenced to fourteen  years transporta.    	book was with the latae sum of money,  but of this Hau-
tion. " Daily was outlawed for not appearing.                        	ton denied all,knoweldge.
James Miller, Robert Aitken, Samuel M'Kny, and Ro-
bert.Sinclair, accused of stealing   19 guineas, from the       	Janet M'Lachlan lives near Highet's, and her testimony
Townhead Victualling Society, Paisley.    Miller was out-    	went to prove that all the prisoners were seen about the
lawed for not appearing, and the others dismissed from    		premises at the very time when the crime was committed
the bar.                                                                              	Park and Hanton came out of the entry leading to Highet's
John M'Kelvie, William M'Aulay, and Arthur Higgins,     		bach window ; M'Guire was sitting on a stone opposite
accused of assaulting, beating and wounding James Mac-    	the entrance, apparently on the look out.    They all went
Adam, and Helen Baxter, his wife,  on the 17th Novem.    		away about the same time,
ber last.   Higgins was outlawed for  not   appearing, and
the others were found guilty.   Sentence delayed.                     	John Morrison, St. Enoch's Wynd, hnows highet, and
John Armstrong or Robertson, acoused of breaking in-    		recollects of his house brine robbed     He was standins at
In the workshop of Wm. Chapman  wright,  High-street,    		his own close-mouth ahout 7 o'clock on that evening  and
was found Guilty, and was sentenced to transportation    		saw Parh parting with Mr. Hannah's son.    Parh and a
for life.                                                                               	man dressed in the garb of a  sailor went into the yard
John Earl, for assaulting Robert Tillery, with Intent to    		leading to Highet's back window, and in a short time he
rob, was like wise sentenced to seven years transportation,    	heard some money falling, of which he told  M'Guire,
The prisoner on being tahen away, exclaimed in a loud     		while sitting on a stone, who called him a d—d liar,
voice, that " he had not got justice at his trial."                 		Witness immediately after went to the head of the Wynd,
Joseph Park, John M'Guire, ostler, and George Hau-    		where he remained for some time, and saw M'Guire and
ton, accused of breaking into the house of Robert Highet,    	the sailor coming forward, followed by Path.    Fruzer the
spirit-dealer, St. Enoch's Wynd, on the. 3J October last,    	officer, came the same night and raised him out of his bed.
and stealing therefrom some bank-notes, a silver watch,     	He was present at the apprehension of the sailor and Parh
and various other articles.     Hanton  was outlawed, and    	in a house in Saltmarket.   After he heard of the house-
Park and M'Guire pleaded Not Guilty.                                	breaking he suspected Parh and the sailor had committed
Robert Higher recollects of his shop being broken into    		the crime,  and that M'Guire was stationed an a watch.
on a Sunday evening in  September last, bet ween 6 and        	The Jury returned a verdict of Guilty against both pri-
8 o'clock, while he was at church ;  when he retuned the    	soners.    They were sentenced to be executed at Glasgow
landlord of his hose was knocking at the window, and    		on the 31st day of May next.
told him he wanted some beer, and enquired how he came
to leave the, window open, when he told  him he had nailed                                                  Printed for John Muir.A LIST

Of all the Prisoners who are to stand their Trials be-
fore the High Court of Justiciary next Week.

Just published, a correct List of the 64 prisoners who
are to stand their Trials before the High Court of
Justiciary during the course of next week ; giving
the names and different crimes for which they are
charged, and the particular day on which they are
to be tried; taken from the best authority.

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, 7th and 8th January.

The Cases are served for the 7th, and such as are not
then overtaken, will be continued till the 8th.

William Cook, vending forged notes. James Thomson or Smart,
theft  from  lockfast places. Samuel Donaldson, theft. Margaret
Farquhar and Margaret Hunter or M'Greger, theft by housebreak-
ing, Barbara  Lawrie, or Campbell, or Walker, theft. Fergeus
M'Pherson and Hector Ross, theft by housebreaking. Ann
Maclaren, theft; and Peter White, reset of theft. Peter Galbraith,
theft by.housebreaking; and Mary Mathieson or Galbraith, reset
of theft, Alexander Pettigrew, culpable homicide. Margaret Gray
or Markie, theft; Mary Little or Stevenson, reset of theft. Peter
Littler, theft from lockfast places, breach of trust, and embeazle-
ment. Eliza Hildyard or Barker, theft by housebreaking. James
M'Donald, theft, Mary Calvert, theft. Ana Lawoon or Gale,
theft.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, 9th and 10th January,

The Cases are served for the 9ch, and such as are not
then overtaken will be continued till the 10th.

Alexander Weir, theft by housebreaking, &c. Duncan M'Millan,
rape, or assault to  ravish. Alexander Bryce, Alexander Agnew
Bryce, and William Clark, falsehood, fraud, and wilful imposition.
Thomas Yule, theft. James Hosie, theft. Margaret M'Leod or
Seoul, theft. Elizabeth Dyer or Duff, vending base coin, John
Bain, uttering forged notes: Daniel Brown, contravention of Act
5 Geo. IV. c. 84. Janet  Munro. theft. John Lees, culpable homic
cide- James Wemyss, culpable homicide. Helen Fraser and Elisa-
beth or Betty Houston, theft.

FRIDAY  AND SATURDAY, 11 th and 12th.January.

The Cases are served for the llth,. and such as are not
then overtaken will be continued till the 12th.

Robert Logan, Thomas Greig, William Fulton, Robert Mellrose,
and Archibald Bryson, contravention of Act 9  Geo. 4, c. 69. John
Thomson, assault. Alison Walker or Henry, Janet Fergusen or
Charteris, and John Henry, theft from lockfast places. Thomas
Neil, Thomas Henry, and Robert Henry or Hendry, violating
sepulchres. Donald Crawford and Margaret Smith, incest, Henry
Letham, Alexander Stevenson, James Muir, and Marion Gunn, or
Fernie, or Hooker, assault, William Low, John Gran, Euphemi'a
Hislop, and John Wilkie, assault. James Innes and David
Thomson, robbery, Andrew Hastie, theft, John Smith, alias
Paterson, forgery.

*For fugitation.

†This case  was certified from the  late Autumn Circuit held at
Dumfries.

Forbes & Co. Printers,171, Cowgate.Address,

Or Warning to the Young,

By the unfortunate Men, now under Sentence of Death, who
are to be Executed on Wednesday the 3d of November next,
for Various crimes; published as a warning to the rising gene-
ration, to beware of the first beginnings of evil.

O hope ! thou sweet celestial spring,
Of human bliss below,
Who can no hopes of comfort bring,
To mitigate our woe.

Within this dark and dreary cell,
With grief and care opprest,
Our sins and sorrows to bewvil,
And thoughtless follies past.

Fast bound in iron fetters strong,
We wait for heaven's decree,
Till the appointed period come,
When death shall set us free.

O that our crimes may be forgiven,
Before the gracious throne of heaven;
May mercy there appear in store,
To save us when life's storm is o'er.

A few more hours, our lives are o'er,
And we on earth shall be no more ;
O may we pray, while here we live,
That Jesus may our souls receive.

For when we leave this house of clay,
We cannot then repent and pray ;
All earthly things are then in vain,
And we are doom'd to bliss or pain.

All wicked men we now do tell,
To shun the road that leads to hell;
For if they do not shortly mend,
They'll come to some untimely end. 

If we had stopt in our career,
To death we had not been so near;
We had not been brought to public view
For punishment, and warning too.

If our example will not move,
Nor turn them to redeeming love,
Almighty vengeance will be shown,
And all vile plans and deeds made known.

O King of Glory, might and power,
Salvation send in our last hour ;
 And grant that we may dwell with Thec,
Throughout a blest eternity.

Dear, countrymen, a warning take,
And all your lawless crinnes forsake,
At our untimely fate take heed,
Who now repent each wicked deed.

The sad example keep in mind,
Of we poor mortals now confin'd,
And doom'd we are, hanged to be,
Upon the fatal gallows tree.

For our unjust dishonest ways, 
Disgrace and shame conclude our days,
Our fathers, mothers, and all our friends-
In tears lament our woeful ends.

The days are few we have to live,
And all the world we'd freely give,
A few years more of life to have.
To mend ere we this world do leave.

Bad company we would refrain,
Contented be with honest gain,
And holy keep the Sabbath day,
The laws of God and man obey.

But now no friends our lives can spare,
Therefore to die we must prepare,
And hope the Lord will lend an ear,
To us, poor penitents' last prayer.

Farewell dear father, mother, and all,
Forget our shameful end and fall;
Let not the world, in malice, name
To you our faults, our end and shame.

Remember, Lord, thy servants in distress,
O comfort us, for we arc comfortless,
Pardon our sins before this world we leave,
That we a crown of glory may receive.

To think of death our hearts are fill'd with woe,
Our very eyes like fountains overflow
With melting tears, and we are much afraid
To leave this world before our peace is made.

Ere long we must before the Lord appear,
To answer for our sins committed here,
We tremble at the very thought of this.
Fearing the loss of everlasting bliss.

Judge of Judges, King of Glory,
O how dreadful is our fate:
Summon'd to appear before thee,
In this guilty awful state.

We have been grevious sinners,
Since thou Lord didst give us breath.
But we hope for true-repentance,
Mercy at the hour of death.

Justice [ ] has overtook us,
Stopt us in our wicked race,
Guilt and horror have pursued us,
Death now looks us in the face.

See what numbers round us flocking.
Waiting to see our dreadful fate,
But to us it is most shocking,
We repent, now 'tis too late.

Printed for the Book Cryers.Awful Judgment.

A Full and Particular Account of the Dreadful Pu-
nishment inflicted on Mr JOHN SYM, a Respec-
table Gentleman in Hampstead, who was in a mo-
ment struck Blind  by Lightning, for giving False
Evidence against his own Servant Maid, by which
she was condemned to Death, but was afterwards
providentially saved by his voluntary Confession at
the place of Execution,     
MR JOHN SYM, born in the Town and Parish of Hampstead,
a Batchelor of about 40 years of age, having a good Estate  about
£120 a-year of his own, and let out the most part of it, only keep-
ing the house and gardens in his own possession.    He kept a ser-
vant maid in his house whose name  was Mary Small, one of the
same Parish, and about 22 year; of age.   Her Master having been
abroad at a neighbour's house  about a mile distant from his own,
and drinking very hard, came home about ten o'clock at night,
when finding the maid in his chamber  making the bed,  he asked
her, why she had not done it before that time of night, and she
told him she had been about other business.

She being a very handsome young woman, her master took her
in his arms and threw her upon the bed, swearing he would lie
with her, but she strove with all her strength to prevent him, so
that he had not his desire. She in struggling lost the key of her
trunk out of her bosom, and going down stairs her master found
it, and put it into his pocket. He went the next day to a smith's
shop, and had another key made by it, and afterwards put the
maid's in her chamber window, and when he came down he be-
gan to be rude with her, offering her great rewards if she would
consent to lie with him. She told him, that she thought he had
not been such a person, and if he offered such incivilities again she
would leave his service.

He being afraid she would tell the neighbours of his actions,
sent her to a farm house about a mile from his own on an errand,
and while she was absent, took his key and opened her trunk put-
ting in six Gold Rings, four silver spoons, and a silver cup, and
shut her trunk again. When the maid returned, he began again
to offer incivilities, on which she insisted on her wages, telling him
she would not stay another moment in his service. He swore he
would not pay a farthing ; so she takes her trunk and carries it to
a neighbour's house, desiring to leave it there till she went to a Jus-
tice to get a warrant to make her master pay her wages.

The people where the maid left her trunk told her master of it,
who presently took horse and rode to a Justice where he found the
maid making her complaint that her master would not pay her her
wages.     The Justice asked him why he did not pay her ?  He said,
sir, I am glad I have found her here, for she has broken open my.
chest, and has taken away six gold rings, four silver spoons and a
silver cup, and carried them off.

The Justice asked the maid what she had done with the above-
mentioned goods which her master had charged her with ? When
the poor maid with tears in her eyes, answered him, and said, that
she never had seen any such things all the time she had lived in
his house ; but, at the desire of her master, her trunk was sent for
and opened before the Justice, in which they found the goods above-
mentioned. Hereupon she was committed to prison, and at the en-
suing Sessions brought to her trial. When she was at the bar, her
wicked master swore positively, that she had broke open his chest
and feloniously carried away the aforesaid goods. In short, he lay
so hard against her, and the things, as it were, found upon her, that
she was brought in guilty, and received sentence of death.

Wednesday the 3d of April being the day of Execution, after prayers and a Psalm,
being sung as usual, she mounted the ladder, and a rope being placed about her neck,
the Minister then asked her whether she was guilty of the fact for which she was
going to suffer or not ? She answered that she was as innocent as the child unborn;
then she said to the Executioner, when you see me drop my handkerchief, do your
office. Then casting her eyes around, she saw her master and desired to speak with
him, but he refused to come to her ; then the Sheriff went to him and desired him
to speak to the prisoner; when he came she said Lord, master, don't your conscience
strike you to see me going to die this shameful death, for a thing that I am not guilty
of? Her master swore she was guilty, and desired God to make him an example if
she was not, and further said, that what he had sworn against her was as true as that
God was in Heaven. The prisoner said, the Lord turn your conscience ; I do
freely forgive you, as I hope to be forgiven in the world to come. ln less than two
minutes after, there were heard three dreadful claps of thunder, and a flash of fire
that struck her master down at the place of execution. He by a quarter of an hour
speechless; then, when he came to himself, he cried out, I find the heavy hand of
the Lord is upon me ; It was I that put the gold and silver articles into the maid's
trunk, because she would not consent to lie with me.

His eye sight is taken from him, his flesh is rotting off his bones as a just judge-
ment against false witnesses. In brief, the Sheriff respiting the execution till the
Court was informed of this wonderful discovery, the poor girl was saved from the
jaws of death, and part of her master's estate seized, to make her satisfaction for the
loss of her time and credit.

PRICE ONE PENNY.            Menzies,   Printer.COPY OF

A LETTER

FROM MICHAEL M' CABE.

Just published, an interesting Letter from Michael
M'Cabe, now lying under Sentence of Death,
on the Gaud, in the Calton Jail, addressed to
Rebecca Hudson, Bell's Wynd, his Sweetheart,

which is published here by his own desire.



EDINBURGH, 4th Feb. 1833.
CONDEMNED CELL, CALTON JAIL
"To REBECCA HUDSON,   '

' Bell's Wynd.             

" MY DEAR   REBECCA,

" No doubt but you would feel

truly sorry when you heard of my awful sentence, and I am
sure that you will have been watching every opportunity to
hear of any reprive having been sent to me by our Gracious
Sovereign ; but alas Reba, no such happy and welcome tid-
ings have as yet been transmitted to me. Every moment ap-
pears 28 an hour to me, fondly cherishing, as I do, the hope
that a reprive, or ar lease a respite, will yet be forthcoming.
But even when I reflect on our separation for life, death would
be still more welcome. In sorrow and bitterness do I repent
of my ill spent life, now that I see my days drawing nigh a
close. O that I had abided to the instructions of my youth—
that I had abstained from idleness and evil company—minded
the Sabbath day—that I had attended closely to my business,
theu might I at this moment of painful suffering, been as
happy as any of the innocent companions of my childish days,
I have now only to warn you and other associates in my
guilt, to abstain from bad company—to form a new erra in
your life,—to Remember the Sabbath day, and Keep it holy,
—to dash the venemous glass of ardent spirits from your
mouths, as you would do the most naucious drug, and then
your suffering on the bed on death, will be very different from
mine. These are the causes of a premature end, which the
fruits of life spent like ours, in dissipation, villany, and crime.
Every attention is paid to me here, the Jailors are very kind
aad' I am regularly attended by a clergyman, by whose assi-
duity and feeling-heartedness, I am led to turn my wandering
thoughts on the means of expiation, at that Tribunal where
the judgment of men has no controul. From the liberal ed.
ucation which I received from charitable institutions in Ed-
inburgh, I am, thank God, enable to read the Bible, which
has hitherto been too carelessly thrown aside. In it I feel
 unbounded comfort, and I would strongly exhort you to read
it, for in it you will find more comfort, than any gratification
which your wicked companions can suggest. An advice of
this kind, coming from a preacher on the streets may have
little or no impression, but I trust and hope, that coming
from one of your late companions in guilt, it will have an ef-
fectual, and everlasting impression, and than I will have done
one good turn ; I will then be the cause of the saving of a
soul. Dear Rebecca, if you could get some printer to revise
this, and publish it, it may be the means of doing good, for
who can hear the groans of a eulprit, whose honors are so near
and bat will feel affected, and take his sayings seriously to
heart. O that it may make a lasting impression upon the
hearts of many, and turn them from the broad road of misery
destruction, and death. I had a visit from my sister, but
both her feelings and mine, were so overpowered, that I sunk
into a state of insensibility. May God bless her and all my
relations, and may they nor yov, nor any of my late com-
panions sorry in my death.—I must now bid you an eternal
adieu,

      MICIAEL M'CABE.EXTRAORDINARY.

APPREHENSION and EXANINATION  of the

EDINBURGH -.GENTLEMAN SWINDLER,

Just Published, a strange account of the proceedings
of Captain Smith, the notorious Gentleman Swindler,
who has taken-in a great number  of Noblemen and 
Gentlemen residing in Moray Place, George Street,
Charlotte Square, Herriot Row, Anslie Place, Royal
Circus, Athole Crescent, Newington, Stock Bridge, and
most every Street in the Newtown, who was appre-
hended by Sergeant Major Ramage, of the Police, while
riding up the Cowgate on a black charger, when £250
was found in his pocket, and a French Gold repeating
Watch hung round his neck ; also his examination
before the Sheriff.

SWINDLING EXTRAORDINARY.—Information having
been given to the Police Authorities, that an individual
whose real name, as far as we know, is Thomas Diekson,
but who has many ALIASES, had again appeared on the
scene, and began his avocations  in the above capacity,
a zealous search was instantly instituted, and he was
fortunately apprehended on Thursday night by Sergeant
Major Ramage. This personage who has a very pleas-
ing exterior plies his vocation in the following manner.
He contrives to obtain some vague history of the family
whom ne intruds to direct his attack, and having this
far veiled his imposture, he generaly assumes their name,
and sets forth a piteous interesting and rather elegant
tale of his misfortunes. By this means he has imposed
on the credulity of several persons in this City, and ob-
tained from £1 to £8. To give an idia of the extent
of his impositions we give the following names which
he took—Galloway, Jardine, Maxwell, Smith, Cragie,
Johnston, Carthcart, M'Kenzie snd Ferguson. He first
appeared in this City in 1833, and, we believe, also in
September of that year, but notice of his rogueries having
appeared in the newspapers, and the public having been
put on their guard, he found the scene rather too hot
for him and he wisely took his, departure. Thinking
that this had all blown over, he made his appearance
about ten days ago, although all his misdeeds during that  period had
not yet transpired. However, it was discovered that he had swindled
£2. from a family in Moray Place, to whom he had applied under
the title of Captain Smith, of the Dima of Liverpool, and thus led to
his detection. At the time he was apprehended he was riding up the
Cowgate on a long tailed black horse, which he had purchased from a
horse dealer of this City. Ramage having surveyed  his man, immed-
iately accosted him, and taking hold of the bridle,tacitly informed
him that he was his prisoner. Upon this he reined up with great
dignity, as much as to say why he was thus rudely stopped. Ramage,
however, was not to be balked in his pray, and at once pulled him
from his horse, cook him to the Police office, and sent his Bacephalus
to the White Hart Inn stables. He was then taken down to the family
in Moray place and identified there, as well as at other houses where
he had committed his fraud. On searching him, no less than £250
8s. Sd. was found on him. In appearance this noted character is
about 5 feet, 9 inches, fair hair, and complection. and, on the whole,
as we have already said, of rather prepossessing appearance.  He was
always elegantly dressed, generally in a while hat, blue jacket and
surtont, with white or blue pantaloons, for he was fond of personating
nautical characters. When apprehended, he also wore a handsome
French gold watch, with corresponding appurtenances  all suspended
round  his neck in the most sashlonable style. There are 5 Charges
against him, to account for which he is remanded by the sheriff.

FORBES, Printer, Edinburgh.GLASGOW

Trials & Sentences.

Trials & Sentences.                                                                                                       

Account of the Trial and Sentence of the various Prisoners who have
appeared at the Bar of Justiciary since it opened on Tuesday   last

GLASGOW, 23d April, 1839.

This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened hereby the Right Hon. the Lords
Meadowbank and M'Kenzie. After prayer by the Rev. Dr. Smyth of St. George's, the Court
proceeded to the trial of                                                                                                        

Margaret Canovan, or Smith, for Stealing a coat from the Sheriff Clerk's Office, on the 18th 
of February, and being a habit and repute thief    7 years transportation.

Margaret Arthur pled guilty to stealing a peice merino from a shop in Trongate, in Nov.
1832, aggravated by previous conviction  and was sentenced to 7 years transportation.

Mary Hendrie or Henderson pleaded guilty to sealing a black silk gown,   and various ar-
ticles, from a Tavern in Tontine close, on the 21st March, sentenced 7 years transportation.

Janet Becket, pleaded guilty to stealing various articles of  wearin apparel and other pro
perty, from dwelling-houses in Canon, Douglas, and Kent Streets.    7 years transportation.

William Smith, alias M' Kay, pleaded guilty to breaking into a dwelling-house in M' Alpine
Street, on the 30th March, aggravated by previous conviction. 14 years transportation.

Elizabeth Houston, theft of a watch, pocket book, toys, confections, parcels of letters, pa-
pers, and other artcles from a shop in East Clyde Street, sentenced to 14 years transportation.
Daniel Stirrat,   accused of uttering a forged note, in a public house in Calton, on the 8th
Octr. found guilty and sentenced to be transported for life.

John Barclay accused of the murder of Samuel Neilson, on the 10th October in   the vil-
lage of Cambusnethan, within a house then occupied by Samuel Neilson, cattle dealer, did
wickedly and feloniously attack and assault said Samuel Neilson, and did, with a hammer, or
with the nave of a cart wheel, or some other weapon, strike him one or more blows  on the
head, by which the said Samuel Neilson was mortally wounded, and died soon thereafter.
Also, same time and place, with   stealing a silver watch, a 20s.  note ot the British Linen
Company, and other two 20s.  Bankers' notes.    In reply to the charge the pannel Said,  " By
necessiy going to take my life yet, sir?"    Written  special objections were lodged With and
read by the clerk, denying both or either of the charges, and setting forth that, if the crime
was proved against him, he was, at the period referred to, as well as sometime previous, in
a state of mental derangement.    After the examination of a number of witnesses, the Jury
returned a verdict finding the prisoner guilty.     His Lordship after an impressive adress, sen
tenced him to be Executed at Gasgow on Tuesday the 14th of May next, and his body to be
interred in the precincts of the jail.    Neilson was a blind man, and for  the sake of money
which the pannel knew he was possessed of, this most atrocious murder was committed.

William Campbell, Neil Campbell, and Wm.   Graham,   Barney Collins, Wm.  Cranston,
    John  Mitchel, and Norman  M'Farlane were outlawed.

Peter M'Niven, forgery. pleaded guilty.    Transportation for life.
James How, theft by housebreaking, plea led guilty.    7 years transpostation.

John Smith for assaulting and ravishing Margaret Warren, aged 13, pleaded guilty. 7
years transportation.

James Young, theft, pleaded not guilty.    After several witnesses had been examined, the
Jury found the panel guilty, and he was sentenced to 6 months imprisonment in Paisley Jail.

James Lonie was outlawed for not appearing.
David Doughtie, theft, and previously convicted, pleaded guilty.    7 years transportation.

Rossannah M' Neal, housebreaking, theft and reset; also, habit and repute, pleaded guil-
ty.    14 years transportation,
Elizabeth Jackson, alias Barr, alias, Cunnrngham alias Magaret M' Kellar, alias Catherine

Campbell,theft, pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to 7 years  transportation.
Andrew and William  Bennie, theft.     William  was outlawed for not appearing, and Andrew
pleaded not guilty.    After the examination of several witnesses, he Was found guilty. and
Sentenced to 7 years transportation.

Alexander Struthers, charged with assaulting and stabbing Wm. Watt, Weaver, pleaded
guilty. Sentence delayed.                                                      

Philip Cairnie, rape.    Sentenced to be Executed on the 14th of May next.
Peter Newberry, assault with intent to ravish, found Guilty.    Transportation for life.
William Davidson, theft, 7 years transaortation.    James M'Kay, theft, not proven, dismissed.
Charles Boyle, theft, dismissed.    Norman M' Farlane, theft, outlawed.    Robt. Blair, theft,
7 years tranportation.    John Corbet, George Swan &  Thomas Walker, weavers, Stonehouse,
theft by housebreaking, the two former 7 years transportation, an the latter outlawed.

Neil Campbell alias Donald Stewart, horse stealing, outlawed. John Gardner, hamesuck.
en and assault, sentence delayed. William and Peter Gardner, hamesncken and assault, the
former was outlawed, and the latter recommitted. Bernard Collins, rape or assault to ravish,
outlawed. William Bennie, theft, outlawed. Jane Stewart or Ross, child murder, 6 months  

in Hamilton jail. James Struthers, theft, sent back. Wm. Graham, assaut, outlawed.

	W. m . CARSE,  PRINTER.G   R   O   A    N   S  

FROM  THE                                                      

D U N G E O N;         

O R,

The sorrowful Lamentation of PETER GRAY, now under Sentence of Death, in the
Tolbooth of this City.



I.

MORTALS on various projects bent,

Attend the mournful cry,
Nor scorn the melancholy plaint

Of him condemn'd to die.

II.

From dreary walls, where darkness reigns,

Nor hope, nor joy appear,
In pity hear my mournful fate,

And grant a gen'rous tear.

III.

In vain, with retrospective view,

1 think on days that's past;
Nought now remains—an awful thought,

But how to meet my last.

IV.

Alas! how happy to have spent

In honesty my days,
Till death, the latest friend of many

Had clos'd my peaceful eyes.

V.

But ah! what death awaits my view!

No fame attends my doom ;
Disgrace and pain, companions foul,

Shall lead me to the tomb.

VI.

forc'd from the stage of life, I fly
To scenes where shine no light,

At noon my sun for ever hid
In clouds of endless night.

VII.

Torn from the arms of her I love,

My true and faithful wife-
May HE who can, direct and soothe

Thy solitary life,

VIII.

Nor you, my children dear, despair,

But trust that Father kind,
Who makes you his peculiar care,

When you are left behind.

IX.

With shame, my children, I advise-

Mark your poor father's fate,
And shun the road whose baneful path

Will lead yon to his state.

X.

Condemn'd by man, in fetters strong,

Rejected here I lie,
Till that dread hour which ends my life,

And now is drawing nigh.

XI.

To die! how can I bear the thought 

How meet that Judge Divine,
Before whose penetrating eye

Lies naked all my sin.

XII.

And is there then no mercy left—
No mercy from above!

O God, in mercy thou delight'st-

Thy character is love.

XIII.

In pity, then, regard my state,

Let beams of mercy dart
Refulgent, thro' this dreary cell

To chear the sinner's heart.

XIV.

And when my soul must leave this clay,

Resign'd may it be;
Mount upward on thy mercy's wing,

And ever live with thee.

Printed by Thomas Duncan, Saltmarket, Glasgow.HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.

Edinburgh, Monday, 1March 1841.

GRACE ANDERSON , a servant in the
British Hotel, Queen Street, pled Guilty to
the Concealment of Pregnancy of a female
child, born on the 25th or 26th of December
last, which was afterwards found dead in a
chest or trunk in her bed-room in the said
house. Sentence, Seven Months' confine-
ment in Prison.

MARY HUNTER pled Guilty to the
Theft of a piece of Printed Cotton, con-
taining about 28 yards, from the shop of
Charles Peters, draper, Lawnmarket, on
the 12th of January last,—aggravated by
having been previously convicted of theft,
and was sentenced to Two Years' confine-
ment in Prison at hard labour.

DONALD M'LEOD, then a servant in
the United Service Club-House, Queen
Street, charged with six different acts of
Theft of sums of money, amounting in all
to about L.140, and other valuable articles,
from lockfast portmanteaus, & c., belonging
to various gentlemen visiting the house,
between the months of August and October
last, pled Guilty to five of the charges, and
was sentenced to Transportation for Seven
Years.

PETER KERR or CARR, weaver, was
unanimously convicted of Uttering a Coun-
terfeit Sixpence piece, in the shop of  Jame
Mason, spirit-dealer, Castle-hill, on the 17th
of December last, in payment of a gill of,
whisky, having another base one in his pos-
session at the time,—aggravated by having
been previously convicted of a similar offence,
and was sentenced to Eighteen Months
confinement in Prison at hard labour.

JOHN RUNCIMAN, labourer, was u-
nanimously convicted of the Theft of a
Brown Gelding, from the Deer Park, at
Dalkeith Palace, on the 9th or 10th of
December, the property of his Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch,—aggraveted by having
been twice previously convicted of theft;
first time before the Sheriff and a jury, and
then before this same Court. He was now
sentenced to Transportation for Ten Years.

MARY ANNE CAIRNS, a girl of the
town, THOMAS PURVES, lodging-house
keeper, Leith Street, and MARTHA CON-
NOR or PURVES, his wife, were next
charged with the Theft of L.52 sterling, in
bank notes of different values, from the per-
son of John Blyth, manufacturer, Pathhead,
within Purves's house, on the night of Sa-
turday the 24th or morning of Sunday the
25th of October last.—with the alternative
charge against Purves and. Connor of Reset
of the same. The pannels all  pleaded Not
Guilty, aud the case went to trial. Cairns
was unanimously found guilty of the theft
and Purves of the reset libelled,—and the
charges against Connor not proven. Cairns
was then sentenced to Seven Years' Trans-
portation, and Purves to Eighteen Months'
imprisonment,—and Connor was dismissed
from the bar.

.... ooo   .....

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.HORRID

Circumstance

In a Druggist's Shop in Town.

Account of that strange circumstance which took
place on Sunday night last in a Druggist's shop in
Glasgow ; the shopman and another person invit-
ed two young women into it, where after giving to
them spirits, lozenges and powders, a most brutal
attack was made upon them in the shop, when one
of them made her escape, and the other was found
by the Police lying in the shop in a state of insen-
sibility. What they meant to do with the women
has not been ascertained.

(Copied from the Glasgow Chronicle of Nov.  15th).

At the Police Court, on Monday morning, a case of the most atrocious nature was
brought to the bar. Mr --, a Druggist in -- Street, was, along with a com-
panion, accused of inviting two girls of the town into his back shop on Sunday night
about half-past eight o'clock, and there persuading them to partake of spirits, lozen-
ges, and some powders. One of them took a small quantity of the spirits, but would
take none of the lozenges or powders that were offered her. The girl who received
the maltreatment deponed to the Court that she took two glasses and a half of the spi-
rits, also a few lozenges; and that the companion of Mr -- then took out of dif-
ferent boxes in the shop, several stuffs and powders, some of which were sourish, and
others of a sweetish taste. This unconscious girl swallowed a quantity of these drugs,
and in a few minutes afterwards became insensible; after which she could recollect
nothing of the circumstance until she found herself in the Police Office. Her compa-
nion was then called to the bar, and after corroborating upon oath the statements of
the pursuer, deponed that after the pursuer became insensible, Mr --'s compa-
nion kicked and maltreated her in a most shocking manner, although the pursker was
at that time motionless and insensible. Mr --, who, perhaps, thought that the
kicking was quite unnecessary, interponed in behalf of the pursuer, as did the other
girl ; but both were struck by the assailant, who wished not to be interfered with.-
During Mr --'s interposition, witness succeeded in making her escape by a back
door, ran out to the street, raised an alarm, and called " Police." The watchman on
that station was then called to the bar, and deponed, that about half-past eleven on the
night in question he heard a woman crying at the shop door of the druggist, and kick-
ing violently for admission ; on enquiring the cause of her conduct, he was informed
of the affair inside ; he called another watchman, with whom, along with a man who
was passing at the time, he entered the shop. On entering the back shop, witness saw
a woman lying on the floor on her right side in a state of complete nudity and appa-
rently flead ; on questioning the prisoners, they made some silly apologies. Mr --
said to the officers that he would carry out the woman by the back door and leave her
there, and advised them to say that they found her there in that state. The verdict
of assault being clearly proven against the prisoners, they were amerced in a fine of
£5 each.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.Horrid Confession
OF
John Kean,

The Cotton Spinner who was lately sent off from this City for
Botany Bay, and which was read in the house of Commons
on Friday night last, giving the names and descriptions of
the persons who employed him to shoot John Graham, and
who gave him the pistols and shot. Also, the names of
several respectable Manufacturers who were to have been
assassinated, for which he was to receive £100.

On Friday night, the Report of the Committee of the House of Commons on the
Combination Laws, was laid before the House, from which the following Confes-sion
of the culprit Kean is extracted; it is worthy of remark it is dated the day
before he was whipped. '

Mr. Wm. Robinson called in and examined.
You are Sheriff Depute of Lanerkshire ?—I am, and have been for 3 years.
You mentioned in your evidence on priday, that you had a voluntary confession
by a person named Kean, will you produce it ?
[ The witness delivered in the same, which was read as follows]:

					"Glasgow Jall, 9th May, 1825.
" I, JOHN KEAN, present prisoner in the Tolbooth of Glasgow, declares that
there are three districts in and around Glasgow, consisting of 800 Cotton-spinners,
or thereabouts, who were formerly in the practice of having pass-words and signs,
but since the passing of Mr. Hume's Act they make no use of them, and the object
they have in view is to keep up their wages.

" There are two Committee-men appointed from each district, whose duty is to
Conduct the business at their respective districts, and to report to the select Com-mittee,
who are three in number, that are also changed every two montho, those
three persons that are selected as Committee-men are not known to the Operatives,
except the District Committees, who are sworn that they wiil not make known their
names; the names of the two Committee men of the bridgeton district is Thomas
M'Gonn; cotton-spinner, Landressy Street, and works in Barrowfield Mill, and W.
M'Lne, residing in Mile-end, and works in Lindsay, Ewing and Company's Mill,
Mile-end, who were the two persons that employed the declarant, and John Gillan,
who lodges in Bains a shoemaker, head of Struthers Street ; Daniel Orr, residing
with his mother in Mill Street, calton ; John Campbell, residing with his father in
Muslin Street, and who supplied them with pistols, and gave them money to buy
ammunition; thinks the pistols, which were new, were bought in Paisley ; Daniel
Orr and John Campbell, bought the powder and shot, he thinks, in Moses M'Cul-loch's
shop in Gallowgate.

" They were to receive a reward of £100, or thereabouts; and provided they
succeded, more money was to be advanced by the Committee. Messrs. wright
Dunlop,Lindsay. and Ewing, were particularly pointed out to them as persons
whose lives should be taken as soon as posible Gillan was the person who, along
with the declarant, fired at Graham ; heand that. George M'Donald was the person
who shot at Robert Walsen. The Committee met at one time in the house of Peter
M'Arthur, King, Street, Glasgow ; and since M'Arthur left King; Street, they meet
in W. EWing's tavern, east side of High Street, Glasgow, every Saturday night be-tween
the hours of 8 and 9 o'clock. (Signed) " JOHN KEAN."

Was that a voluntary confession ?—Entirely voluntary.
Procured by neither threats nor promises ?—Not in the least degree; procured,
indeed without any interference, without any reward, or promised rewared of any
kind or description, nor threat, nor promise of mitigation of punishment.--Copied
from the Free Press of Tuesday last.
W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.KEAN'S

Contradiction of all that has been advanced
he left the City of Glasgow, wrote'
one of the hulks.

Copy of a letter received by a Law
is, in a few instances, corrected ;-—
                  1825
                                                                '              

"Dear Mr. M------,

" I received yours on the [  ]d, and it gave me very much surprise to
learn by its contents that there is so much falsehood. slander, and wilful imposition
thrown out against me from the first, and is likely to be until the last. You wish
me to write a confession that I made to two Gentlemen, which is a thing utterly
out of my power to do, as I never made confession of any kind to either of them ,
nor was it in my power to do so, unless I was to resort to the same means  that they
are doing with me now. You also boldly say. that I need not deny it, for I will not
be believed. That is what I cannot help, whether I am believed or not; but, for
the respect I always held for truth and justice, and likewise for your satisfaction, I
never made any such assignment or confession ; and any such you have seen, them
I say now are all false and without  foundation, as it never was in my power to do,
if I stood to truth and justice, which, with the help of God, I will always do, let
the world say as they will. And with respect to writing to Mr Hume, or any of
the Members of Parliament, I am willing either to write or meet them on any
ground, to substantiate the same. Common sense and reason might show to you,
that although I had made as many confessions as would fill one quire of paper, it
would do me no good with regard to my sentence, which I was well aware of my-
self; besides, it was not in my power either to hurt the trade, or any of those indi-
viduals you have mentioned, as they neither had knowledgd,  nor were art or part
with me in what the two Gentlemen accuse them with. And I likewise told my
brother-in-law, in Edinburgh, that one of the Gentlemen was with me several times
before I left Glasgow, wishing me to make a declaration of all I knew about my
unfortunate catastrophe ; but I told him he had used the basest of means to get me
convicted, and was it in my power to do as he wished, I would not give him any
such satisfaction, as he used all sorts of false means against me before my trial.—
He likewise went over a number of names to me, and wished to know by me if they
were the eight persons, as he said he had information against above 12 persons ;
but I told him that I doubted his information was like some of the villains brought
against  me, that would swear any thing the case required for him. He likewise
brought Mr. H----------- up one day before I left Glasgow, upon the same intent;
and Mr. H. told me he might be the means of mitigating my time if I would bring
to conviction the persons that were along with me, and who  paid me for shooting
at the Nobs ; but he went away much displeased when his queries had not the de-
sired effect. All the different questions, the names of different persons that he put
to me, from first to last, is too numerous for me to mention to you at this time;
but allow me to say, as an honest man, for the regard I have for my own soul, and
justice to all those innocent individuals, that whatever assignments, confessions,
or declarations you have seen, or may see, of the same nature, is utterly false, and
without foundation.

I am very sorry that such falsehoods should militate so far against the welfare of
my wife, as well as injuring the interests of society (whose basis is founded on the
legalist foundation in the kingdom), and all the rest of those innocent persons whom
they wish to hurt, by all accounts. As for myself, they may say what they please,
for they have done nothing else from the first to the last; but they have a just God
to answer to for all their unjust doings to me. Dear Mr M------------I would wish 
you would write to me as soon as you see fit, as I am not sure of the day the ship
will come to take us away; and, as my money is very scarce, I hope you will pay,
the postage. Direct to John Kean, convict on board his Majesty' s ship, Justicia
hulk, Woolwich. No more from yours,

" JOHN KEAN."

The above is copied from the Glasgow Free Press of Saturday, July 2d, 1825.

W. Carse, Printer.Lamentation for George Gilchrist
Under sentence of Death in Edinburgh,

Come all ye night walkers a warning take by me,
Now I have received my sentence to die most shamefully;
OH the third day of August', at the head of Libberton Wind
You will behold my wretched fate, a warrning take in time
On the twenty-fourth of March, in this same year thirty-one;
Me and my brother William and Morrison and Brown
We into the Prince Regent coach as passengers inside,
Drtst in a female's garb-,'twas my knavery to hide.

By Satan's dark delusions from bad to worse I came
And how to plunder the bank box I soon fell on a plan;
There I did act a modest part, like those of women kind.
And the guard, I'm sure,never dream'd what then ran in my mind

A hammer and a chissel there, with pistols too I had.
To execute my dark design, and not a word was said
Then one firm stroke I gave the box which made the hinges fly
The coach it still being running on, no noise the could dis[  ]

the booty then I made my own and soon we all went on,
But little did the coachman dream what I had been about;
'when they arrived in Bathgate, with horror and dismay,
They found the box had opened been, and the money taken away

Who then could be suspected, those c[ ]achsm n they were clear,
But the eye of justice on them suspicious did appear;
They little thought George Gilchrist, whom they took for a wife
Had been the one that robbed it, and now forfeits his life.

Now there are three that have got clear,and I am left to die
But for to scandalize them I never mean to try;
I dare not say they're guilty, the law it set them free
But only for King's evidence, one would have died with me.
But now is time that I prepare for that great bar on high,

The Judge omnipotent there sits, and justice is his throne,
From him I hope for mercy when from this world I'm gone

My sentence here, I must confess,, that it on earth is just,
And may it prove a warning when I'm laid in the dust,
To all who follow gambling, for nothing good ensues,
To them that drops their business and idleness pursues.
My days on earth are numbered, no mercy here I'll find,
'Soon I must bid adieu to all the busy scenes of time ;
But there is mercy out of sight, concealed from mortal eyes,
The greatest sinner that returns the Lord will not despise.

.Death's dreadful apparatus will soon erected be,
,Upon the third of August a dreadful sight you'll see ;
From the Tron Church till the West Bow the crowd will there
extend.

Upon that awful morning to witness my sad end.
The fatal drop it will  give way, then time to me is past,
Stretch forth thy arms, thou gracious Judge, and help me
           the last;

Even yet I hope for mercy through thy redeeming Son,
New I must bid you all adieu, my glass is nearly run.LAMENTATION OF GEORGE GILCHRIST.

Now    under   sentence    of   death    in    Edinburgh.

If I had been contented, and carried on my trade,
I would, have been much happier, and money would have made,
But was hast'ning to he rich, and fell into a snare,
Which 1 would tell to every  one, to make them all beware.

For money is so strange a thing it leadeth to all ill,.

By  it the devil leadeth man a captive at his will,

And many a one by  taking it from whence they had no  claim..

Has brought himself as I have done into much grief and shame

I'm now a wretched prisoner condemned in the Jail,
And very few will pity me although thy  hear my tale,
But oh ! good people think of this, that you may  also fall
For it is not   in our own strength that we do walk at  all.

A great temptation wrought on me to make me rob the coach,
And every day  it stronger grew and on me did encroach,
I very shortly form'd a plan by which it might be done,
And thought the money in the coach we would have for our own,

So knowing that on certain days the bank did money send,  

I plans in execution put; and did it to the end. 

That none might occupy the coach but those that were with me,
Or how the money taken was, no.others there might see.

I dress'd myself in womens clothes attended by a man,
The inside seats we taken had which was the very  plan;
We then commenc'd and cut a hole and so took out the cash.
But had I known what was to come I would not been so rash.

For three of them who saw and knew King's evidence did turn,
And when 1 knew such was the case it made me deeply mourn,
And though  some were as bad as me that did against me swear,

They cannot feel as I have done since I was placed hers.

For now my days are number'd here and settled by man,
And I'm affraid it will be so though I do all I can,
For on the 3d of August next I   am   condemn'd to die,
I own the sentence to be just the crime I don't deny.

Now in this dreary cell I lye and do my  case bewail,

By keeping of bad company the truth to you I tell.

For had I been an upright man I never would been here,

Or kept in mind the law of God from theft for to keep clear. 

But I did covet other's wealth in hopes for to be great,
And when I think on all my  ways it makes me mourn my fate,
That ever I thought on the plan, or with these men did go,
For rattling chains does now me bind,I can't express My  woe.

Four thousand pounds I've giv'n up expecting to got clear,
And hope His gracious Majesty  will my petition hear,
If he in mercy grant the same: as bound I'll ever pray.
And  think upon his goodness great unto my latest day.

likewise my friends will happy be to think that it is so,
Which will remove from all their hearts a load of grief end woe..
To think the sentence past on me is not to be enforced,
And hear that what I've undergone will likely  be the worst.


   

EXECUTION 

SECOND EDITION

   

Full, True, and  Particular Account of the EXECUTION  &  Gorge 

Gilclirist at the head of Libberton 's, Wynd, on the morning of the 
third of August, 1831, for  the robbery of the Prince Regent, Edin-

burgh  coach, of five Thousand seven Hundred and  Twelve Pound,
Six Shillings , sterling, the property of the  Commercial Bank.,__

—his behaviour in the condemned cell,—his parting from his wife
and friends—and his behaviour in the Look  up  House during the
night before the execution, and on the  scaffold,—the whole by an

eyewitness.

This morning, between eight and nine o'clock, this unhappy culprit,
George Gilchrist, paid the last penalty of the law, by the forfeiture of

his life, by the hands of the common executioner, and in presence of a

great concourse of spectators, at the head of Libberton's Wynd,—
another tarrible example of the awful consequences of giving way to
inordinate and unlawful desires.                                          

The public is already aware, but it may be proper briefly to repeat ,
that the trial of George Gilchrist, in conjuction with two of  his alleged
accomplices, vis., his brother William Gilchrist. and James Brown.
took place before the High Court of justiciary, on the 14th of last.

month, and that after a patient and laborious investigation, which lasted
nearly twenty six hours, the jury unsnimously found George Gilchrist

guilty,—unanimously found the libel not proven against William

Gilchrist,—and by a pluralily  of voices  only found it not  proven

against James Brown.—Brown however has since fully confessed his

participation in the robbery, by returning to the Commercial Bank
nine hundred pounds of the stolen money.  which had fallen to his 

share of the plunder,—an act which, Whether it proceeded from a

feeling of compunction and repentance, or from a desire to save the

life of his less fortunate accomplice George  Gilchrist, certainly in some

measure redeems his previous guilt.--George Gilchrist also, in the hope 

of obtained remission of the capital punishment,has returned upwards

of four thousand pounds of the stolen money,-and it is understood

that the Commercial Bank has recovered the whole amount  of  me

money stolen,except something under the sum of three hundred pounds

sterling. Gilchrist was convicted chiefly on the evidence of his.
accomplices, viz. James Morrison, an inkeeper in Falkirk Robert

simpson,whom Morrison, had inveigled into the conspiracy, and

another man named Campbell. The Crown office, however, had by
the most laudable activity and perseverance, Succeeded in collecting
such an array of other evidence as was sufficient to sbstain that of the
accomplices, and to bring to light the whole of the nefarious transac-
tion, It accordingly appeared that George Gilchrist was the prime
mover in all the circumstances of the robbery. He arrayed himself in

female attire and was one of the inside passanger; in the coach.

Robert Simpson accompanied him as the other inside passanger; and 

these two, being provided with proper implements, broke through
the frame work of the coach into the front boot; and having then.
prized open the tin box containing the treasure, effectually. succeeded
in carrying off money, in bank notes and gold, to the large amount of

five thousand seven hundred and twelve pounds six shilling sterling;

-James Brown was on the outside of the coach as an outside passen-

ger, where he not only by means of a.long and heavy chain, kept up
so loud and jingling a noise as to prevent the noise mads by his con-

effected, and in consequence of which he desired the coachman to stop,
and, with the appearance of friendly alacrity towards the coachman,
alighted and let out his accomplices.

Never was any robbery more skilfully planned or executed ; and the
perpetrators could never have been convicted but by the evidence of
some of themselves. Indeed we have heard on authority on which 

we can place reliance, that the robbery was planned originally by the

famous John Wilson, and Hemilton, now under sentence of transporta-

tion for other crimes, and  that it was carried into execution  by
Gilchrist only in consequence of his having been privy to their design

   In the condemned cell the conduct of Gilchrist was composed,

penitent, and in other respects becoming his awful situation.   He made

a full confession of his crime and of the justice of his sentence. His

parting from his wife and some other friends was truly heart rending.

Last night he was removed from the jail to the lock up house, where
he spent the greater part of the night in devotions, assisted by the
pious clergymen, who  rendered  to him that last  consolation of their
holy office.                                  

About eight o'clock this morning,the Magistrates   and other legal

attendants having arrived, the melancholy procession moved with the

culprit to the scaffold, at the head of Libberton's Wynd, where, after

a short time spent in prayer and in the singing of a psalm, the wretched

man was in the usual manner launched into eternity. after hanging

the usual time the body was cut down, and will of course be delivered

up to his friends for interment.

FURTHER PARTICULARS,

The unhappy  man  locked fatter than he appeared  to be at the time

 of  his trial . During the whole way from the lock up house to the            

scaffold his tottering  steps betrayed the feebleness  both of his  body

 and mind. he was very pale. On the scaffold, he  turned  round,  

looked at the fatal gibbet,    shuddered violently and   drew a sigh,  so

long and deep, and lend that it  was andibly beard among the  spe- 

ctors. But he rallied again, and joined in the devotions with firm

voice. Before mounting the drop , however , his firmness again desers-
ed  him. He seemed most unwilling to take that final and fatal step,

and reeled and staggered for second as if he were drunk. He was

conducted on to the drop.and there he would have  fallen , had he

not been supported.He again relied and prayed servently. pini-

oned as he was he nevertheless assisted the executioner with his own 

hands in adjusting the rope and the cap. He evidently made some 

communication to the chaplain. The drop  fell while he was engaged

in servant prayer, exactly at half past eight ; and after a few severe

but short struggles his sufferings was at an end . He was a good 

looking man, of middling stature,and aged about 35.

   LETTER

FROM JOHN KEAN TO THE LORD PROVOST
AND MAGISTRATES.               

An account of the Public Whipping  of JOHN KEAN, for
Shooting at JOHN GRAHAM, a Cotton-spinner, which took
place on Wednesday the llth of May, on a Platform erected
in front of Glasgow Jail, in presence of an immense multi-
tude of Spectators. Also, the Copy of a most extraordinary
Letter which he presented to the Lord Provost and Magis-
trates on Monday last.

THE above unfortunate individual, it will be recollected, Was tried and found
guilty of a most diabolical attempt to murder John Graham, a cotton-spinner,
by shooting him with a pistol, as he was returning home form his work, in the Cal-.
ton. The prisoner is a native of Belfast, about 30 years of age, and has a wife and
young family. He was always considered a sober, honest, inoffensive tradesman,
till the unfortunate misunderstanding betwixt the Matter Cottonspinners and Oper-
atives occurred, when it is much to be feared that he was urged on to the commis-
sion of the crime of which he was found guilty, more by the suggestion of some lrid-
din villains, than by the innate depravity of his own disposition.

The following is the Petition which he presented to the Lord Provost and Magis-
trates, on Monday last, praying for a mitigation of his punishment:—
Unto the Honourable the Lord Provost and Magistrates of Glasgow,
The Petition of John Kean, prisoner in Glasgow jail,
Humbly Sheweth,

[  ] the punishment which the petitioner has been adjudged to suffer, on the [  ]
[  ] being left to the discretion of your Honours, he, in all humility throws,   
[  ] at your feet, imploring for mercy in the number and quality of stripes, ben
Constitutionally delicate and nervous, increased by   the nature of his employment
and rendered unwell and weak from deep anguish and long and close confinement
end having mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters, and   friends, whose hearts will
be convulsed at the punishment, and whose feelings, he is more anxious to spare than
his own: beseeching you to recollect, that to exhibit Cruel punishment to the pub-
lic does not reform but deteriorates character, and  is opposed to the intelligence and 
benevolence of good men:

And   your Petitioners  all ever pray-

JOHN KEAN.

Glasgow, 9th May' 1825.

At an early hour this morning a number of  me in were engaged in  putting up the
scaffold which was erected at the usual place of  execution in front of the prison. It
consisted of strong tresses, across which were la id stout planks, and in the center
Of which was firmly fixed a whipping-post, the a hole being surrounded by a strong
railing. The culprit ascended the scaffold soon after 12 o'clock, and after having
been bound by the hands, and feet to the post, and his back stripped bare, the Exe-
cutioner proceeded to inflict the punishment when he gave him 80 stripes,and from
the appearance of the unhappy man's body, be n ust have felt grest pain, A great
number of the public works having been shut up the crowd was the largest since the
execution of James Wilson for high treason; and with shame do we say it, a great
proportion of whom were females. The whole operation did not last long, the crowd
being nearly all dispersed by half-past 12 o'clock.

We trust that the punishment thus inflicted, will have a most salutary effect
on those for which the above awful example is intended, and teach them that the arm
of the law is strong, and able to reach and punish all who transgress, or were guilty
of such criminal proceedings.

Since the trial of Kean took place, the Lord Advocate of Scotland has given ao.
tiec of his intention to introduce a bill into Parliament to extend Lord Ellenborough's
Act to Scotland, by which all crimes of the above description, will in future be pu
nished with Death.                                                                  

Printed  by John Muir.       M U T I N Y & M U R D E R  O N  B O A R D  THE   

T R A N S P O R T H O P E. to ACCOUNT of the 

An ACCOUNT of the Dreadful MUTINY that toon place on hoard the Conviek  
Transport Hope having on  board 291  F emale convicts  many of whom  belonged 
to Edinburgh, Leith Glasgow. &c, &c, &c when most Shocking to relete. IT sean 
men,and 39 convets were.killed and   wounded during the fight, as detail d in a
Letter from JAMES MAITLAND, one of the Seamen belonging to LEITH

It is with pain that we here State the brief Particu-
are of the dreadful Mutiny and Murders, on board the
transport Ship HOPE, on her Voyage to Swan River
with 291 female Convicts on board.

The Ship HOPE, Captain James Murray sailed
from Deptford on the 20th-day of March, with 291 fe-
male Convicts on board, and 31 seamen In the Voy-
age the convicts mutinied, and afrer an obstinate fight
17 seamen were murdered, and ,39 convicts, either
Killed or wounded, being one o the most.dreadful in
cidents that has perhaps ever taken place, many of the
convicts belonging to Edmburgh, Leith, Glasgow, &
other parts of Scotland We extract the following
account of this melancholy affair, from a letter that
has been received from james Maitland, one of the
Seamen on Board belonging to Leith.

On.Friday the 19 h April we were proceeding on our voyage 
With 291 Female Convic s ou board to their destiuation  at  Swan
river, tor various periods of transportation. On the afternoon of
Friday  part of the conviets were ainng on deck, while Mr Monk-
land, first mate Mr Wat'S boatswain, accompanied by 11 seamen,
went into the hold to see that all was right, and all the prioners
safe (as much discontent was apparent for some days past) we
being neary 1000 miles from Gibraltar. They were proceeding
to call the Roll, when they were. answered ' Here, but not Here
long". Oh MR MONKTON demanding who it was that made 
such A reply he was.- answered by Jeers Hisses and and every Kind
of revolt, that he considered it prudent  to order th- ALARM  BELL
to be rung. This Was the signal hat was agreed on ; in an instant
the party were- assailed with every kind of weapon, that the pris
oners Could procure. The lantern was put our, and the party
fought in the dark ; many of the Sailors rashed imprudently into
the hold while the cry for the arms resounded from stem to stern.
The, Scene at this moment can better be imagined than described
I was stationed near the armoury door; the prisoner's on deck tore:
.down the ships pail[  ], and attacked the crew on all sides. Cap-
tuin MURRAY was in a state of inebriety, and staggered on deck
h was instantly felled, and as he was at a distance from any asis-
tance, he Was struck repeatedly on  was on the head, and then lay mingled
among  the general havoc, At this moment; our brave seamen
were fighting in small group in all diretction, but they were soon
disarmed, and were either murdered of thrown down the hold
We were then put into the i ons that our new masters lately oc-
cupied. The rush now was for the spirit room, and after pro-
curing a quantity of the beverage, they began to Song, dance and
use all the extrav gance of victors wholly relieved from bondage.
It was such a sight that I never experienced ; the Ship was alow-
ed to drift unheeded in the wid deep with out even a sailor on
deck. Some of the kinder souls, who, perhaps, had experienced
some good treatment at our hands, or feeling for aur unhapy con
 dition, came below and. plied us well with rum, so that we were
in a comparative happy state, especially when they
assured us that we should receive nothing bu kind
ness from their hands. In she morning we were all
brought ou deck, and a woman was pointed out to us
as our future commander, at least the business of the
Ship was to be under her sole direction. Things,
were now arrauged, and we were ordered to make the
first land. After sailing for 9 days 'We discovered
land, it was the coast of Barbaty a head, and made
directly to it  A council was held, Whether it was
prudent or not to land ; it was unaninouly agreed to run the
Ship on Shore, which was done and we all effected a landing they
acartered. in  small groups  through the country, but will soon in all
 probability be apprehended. The remainder of the Ships company
Pany came to London the brig GALADON,

A, M'MILLAN, PRINTER .Gosford's Close LAWKMARKET.RESPITE

FOR

William Grieve.



An Account of a Respite for Fourteen Days having
arrived for WILLIAM GRIEVE, who lies under sentence
of Death in Edinburgh for Rape, and who was to
have been Executed this day (Wednesday); to-
gether with a copy of original VERSES on the occa-
sion.

THIS unfortunate man WILLIAM GRIEVE, now under sen-
 tence of Death for Rape, and who was to have been executed
this day, (Wednesday, the 3d April, 1833,) has been respited for
fourteen days, until certain facts which have transpired since his
condemnation shall be investigated. It is very currently reported
that the principal witness on the trial has made very important dis-
closures, which is expected will have the effect of giving an entirely
different complexion to the case, and may ultimately lead to the
liberation of the unfortunate man. An examination into the cir-
cumstances took place on Saturday last in Haddington, for the pur-
pose of eliciting the supposed new facts of the case, which we sin-
cerely hope will prove favourable to Grieve, as it seems to be the
general wish of the public at large, who have known or heard par-
ticularly of his awful situation.

On the respite having been communicated to him by the proper
authorities, he is reported to have broke forth into transports of
joy and gratitude as soon as with decency he could do so, ejaculat-
ing almost incoherent expressions of gratulations and thanks to our
gracious Sovereign and his Council for the boon bestowed on him.
On hearing of the above gratifying intelligence, an ingenious poeti-
cal correspondent of ours penned the following EFFUSIONS, as if
they were written by Grieve himself, of which we have obtained a
Copy:—

The Heart-felt Gratulations of William Grieve, on
getting a Respite for Fourteen Days.

Friends of the weaker vessel,
My thanks I give to you,
And shou'd I ever carry more,
To you I will prove true.
Live stock is not easy carried,
Which Nature must give in ;
What wou'd come o'er the cart, dear friends,
Wou'd it lose the RACK IN PIN.

Six glass o' Whisky she partook,
As we were on the road ;
I was to blame for giving such,
Which brought me to the GAD.

Had I but thought upon a plan,
To see her rightly booked,
I wou'd have bound her hand and foot,

But my book I ne'er looked.

I promise and I now declare,
By a' the powers aboon,
I'll never have live stock again,
I'll rather sell auld shoon.

But since my King has been so kind,
And a' the powers about him,
Speak ill o' him, by honest Jove,
I'd tak' my whip and whip him.

O gin I had my horse and graith,
And whip hung o'er my shouther,
I'd die upon the road, dear friends,
Or eat my horses fother.

I'll ne'er again have living stock
But my dear honest wife,
For she is true, and she is mine,
And will be while I've life.

Francis M'Cartney.........One Penny.Second List of the Indictments.

93  PERSONS

Persons—their Names and Crimes of all the Prisoners,
belongoing to the Counties of Lanark, Renfrew, Dum-
barton, to stand Trial at the, Court of Justiciary, in
Glasgow, on the 23d April, 1823.

Wm. M'Donald, assault
Daniel  McGennes, do.
John McDonald, theft & reset
Thos Baird  culpable  homicide
Alex.  McDrermid,  theft
Robert Smellie   perjury
John Smellie,       do.
Robert  Smellie,    do.
Melcom  McDonald, do.

Robert smith        do.

Robert Ogilvie,    do.
Robert Smellie    do.
Wm  Wotherspoon do.
Robert  Smellie,     do.
Alexr. Steel, do.
Robert Smellie,   do.  

Robert Laurie,        do.
Robert Smellie, (6th) do.
Wm Clerk, assault
John  Clerk,do.
John Brown. Housebreaking
Robert Campbell,  do.
Thos. McWilliam, homicide
George Campbell, Murder
Elisabeth    Dewar,    assaulting

and scalding,

Thomas Donald,  do.    do.
Archibald   McArthur, culpable

homicide

Archibald  McLardy,   do,    
 Wm Russell, do.
James  Wilson,  housebreaking.
John Gilchrist,      do.
James M. Monnagall, deforcing
John M'Monnagall       do.

Alexander Foster,  Walter Gray,   William
M'Allister, Greenock, assault and robbery.
Hugh Gallogher, theft.
John Sinclair & Hugh M'Dougal, Paisley,
theft  by  housebreaking, and habit  and
repute.

Adam Wallace, Parish of Neilston, assaulting
   beating and, wounding the lieges.
James Scott, Greenock, assault, with intent

to ravish.
Thomas Grass, Matthew Grass, perjury, as

also, subornation of perjury,
John Buchanan do. do.                     

John M' Kanna, uttering forged notes.
James Alexander, assault
James Clark, theft
Cat Harkness, theft
Wm. Munro, theft
Jas Qnin and Jn McCaral, theft   
Cornelins Mc Cann do.
Jn. Quin. assrult
Wm. Carrel theft
Ann M'Kechnie do.
Jn. McDonald do.
Peter Connacher. assault
Alex.  M'cKav, robbery
Math. Turobull, theft and habit and repute
Wm. McGowan, stealing dead bodies
Wm. Murray, theft habit and repute
Jas Ruthven culpable homicide
Jos. Arbucle, theft and reset
Jn. Kyle do.

Jn Alexander, wilful fire-raising
Francis Weir,   R obert Cunningham,   Jas,

Wilson, and John Donaldson, theft,
Wm. Donnachie or McDonnough, theft.
David Wylie. Wm. Johnston, David Duns-
more, Ann  Humer,   Jonn   Foy.   James
Ferguson, housebreaking and theft.
Wm.  Ure, Niel McKan, James Muir, theft
Robt. Scott Housebreaking and theft
Wm Murray, theft and housebreaking
Daniel Hunter        do.                          

Wm   Beveridge        do.
Arch  Fyfe, seducing and debauching.
William Rentoul,    do,       do.
Arthur Colgan, honsebreaking and theft
John Baillie, perjury
Robert Chapman       do.
Robert Smellie        do
Mathew Steel,       do.
Coliu Douglas, robbery
Thomas Weir, assault & prison  breaking



Mayne & Co. Printers, Glasgow.An account of the Sorrowful Lamentation for
John Wilson, & Duncan Frazer 2 young
men, who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on
the 28th january 1824.

The above unfortunate men were tried and condemed at Edinburgh, the
 for shop breaking, their behaviour has been most examplary, and pious, as may be
seen from the following effusions,

Though in a dismal cell we stay,
We think time passes swift away,        
We have not long to meditate,
Upon our fast-approachiag fate.

Our sorrows, and no tongue can tell,
for fear of death and fear of hell ;
Yet still through Christ, we hope to be
From all our misery set free.

Our sins, though they are mountains high
Yet still unto the Lord we'll cry,
That he may in this trying hour
Conviction send with might and power.

'O that our crimes may be forgive.
Before the gracions throne of heaven,
May mercy there appear in store
To save us when this life is o'er.

A few more hours our lives is o'er
And we on earth shall be no more,   
O may we pray, whilst here, we live,
That Jesus may our souls receive.

For when we leave this house of clay,
We caunot then repent and pray ;
All earthly  things  are then in vain,
And we are doom'd to bliss or pain.

All wicked ones we new do tell
To shun the road that leads to hell ;
For if they do not shortly mend,
They'll come to some untimely end.

If we had stopt in our career.
To death we had not been so near ;
We'd not been brought to public view,
For punishment and warning too.

O King of Glory, might, and pow'r.,
Salvation send in our last hour,
And grant that we may dwell with The
Throughout a blest eternity.

Dear couutrymen, a warning take,
And all your lawless crimes forsake;
At our untimely fate take heed,
For we uow rue each wickod deed.

This sad example keep in mind,
Of us, poor mortals, now confin'g,
And doom'd we are our death to see
Upon the fatal gallows tree.

From evil company refrain,
Contented be with honest gain,
And holy keep the Sabbath-day,
The laws of God and man obey.

 But now no friends our lives can spare,
Therefore to die we must prepare,
And hope the Lord will lend an ear
To our last penitential pray'r.

Farewell relations, friends, and, 
Forget our shameful end and fall ;
Let not the World in malice name
To you our faults, our end and shame,

Remember Lord, thy servants in distress.
O comfort us for we are comfortless,
Pardon our sins beiore this world we leave
That wear crown of glory; may receive.

At death our hearts are full of woe,
Our eyes like fountains overflow
With melting tears, and were afraid
To die before our peace is made.

Justice now has overtook us,
Stopt us in our wicked race,
Guilt and horror have pursued us,
Death now stares us in the face.

Judge of Judges, King of Glory,
O how dreadful is our fate,
Summon'd to appear before face
In this guilty, awful state,

Grievous sinners we have been,
Since thou, Lord, didst give us breath,
 But for true repentance hope,
And mercy at the hour of death.

Oh! pow'r divine, our sins forgive
Thou'rt graeious, grace to us extend,
That when our flesh is turn'd to noughs,
Our life with thee. may know no end.

Edinburgh printed for the travelling booksellers.Strange Affair.

Particular Account of JOHN WOOD, who is now
under sentence of death at Perth, and is to be
Executed there on FRIDAY the 16th July,
and what is wonderful is to be tried at Edin-
burgh the day before his Execution, for another
crime, Housebreaking and Theft, and though
he should be cleared of the second indictment,
he must suffer the day following for his first of-
fence, being one of the most singular circum-
stances which has ever occurred in Scotland.

The above unfortunate young man, who was condemned
along with another young man of the name of Donnelly, for
Housebreaking and Theft at Perth, at the last Circuit Court
of Justiciary there, and were sentenced to be Hanged at Perth
on the 4th of June last, and who received a respite of one month,
and another for a fortnight, are to be Executed on Friday first,
the 16th July, 1824.

What makes this case so remarkable, is the fact, that he is
to be tried  the day previous to his Execution at Perth, in Edin-
burgh, upon au another indictment, charging him with House-
breaking and Theft in the house of a respectable Gentleman in
the same neighbourhood. The reason for this strange step We
are not acquainted with, as the newspapers do not assign the
particular motive. They say, that he has been blamed with a
departure from the religion of his fathers, which they who
have attended him in his devotional exercises positively deny.
Be that as it may, any person of common sense would never
for a moment suppose that a new trial would be brought for-
ward on account of the religious principles which, the man
professes; perhaps, it is quite the contrary, and may be done
to satisfy both the ends of justice and the prisoner. Let the
issue be what it may, it cannot be worse for the prisoner than
the punishment he is already doomed to suffer, except the agi-
tated state in which it may place him, his end being so near
at hand. We believe the whole affair to be nothing more
than to fairly investigate the business, and to bring the guilty
to that punishment which such a crime merits.

Every person will naturally feel for the unfortunate man,
for being taken from place to place in this awful situation,
but it is infinitely better the case be investigated that it  may
appear whether he be innocent or guilty.

                                                           W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.The last



S P E E C H

Confession and dying Declaration of WILLIAM  TAYLOR, who
was executed at Stirling on Friday the 28th day of May 1790;
for the the crime of housebreaking.

I WILLIAM  TAYLOR,   aged  about  23
years was born in Perth,   of honest and
creditable Parents who gave me an education
suitable to their circumstances, and gave good
and wholesome instructions. training me up in
the ways of virtue and religion, in short, had
I followed their counsels and advices, I would
not have come to this untimely and shameful
death.     I  was  brought  up  to the Nailor
trade,   and served my apprentiship honestly
and faithfully, as my indentor testifies; after
my  said apprentiship was ended I thought
that a burden taken off me, and that I was
at liberty to do any thing when I was rid of
my Masters superintendency,   I therefore as-
sociated with the most disolute of the Trade
and such of them as were of a sober character,
I looked upon as mean spirited dunces and be-
low my notice,   my parents and friends re-
monstrated with   me upon this mode of con-
duct in very strong and forcible terms, which
restrained me for some time from any outbreak-
ings, but when my parents were both dead I
thought that all restraint whatever was taken
away, never considering that I was still in the
presence of Almighty God whose omnicient
presence beholds all our most secret actions,
and is privy to our inmost thoughts;   nor did
I ever hardly take time to reflect upon my
wicked life until  such time that I was com-
mitted to this prison for the heinous crime for
which I am to suffer an ignominous death.    I
need scarcely inform the reader that I could
not stay long in my native town of Perth by
reason of the many illicit practices I was for-
ced to carry on in order to support myself,
wherenpon I was forced to go several other
towns  to seek for work, at  length I grew
weary of working altogether and began to tra-
vel the country with a few goods, but finding
the product of that way of living too little to
support my former extravagancies, I began to
think of commencing highwayman, a business
which I thought would yield me plenty ; ac-
cordingly I began to lay my schemes, & being
in the house of Alexander Paton in St. Ninians
pairish selling some goods. I observed narow-
ly where he had his money in keeping, with
at intention of breaking his house and stealing
the money and whatever  other wearables   I
was able; all which I put in practice that very
night when I thought they were quiet and a-
sleep, I had got money to the amount of 75l.
pounds sterling with several other things of
value with which I made off as fast as I could

and thought all was safe, however I was deceiv-
ed, for I was pursued, apprehended and cast
into prison, and am never to come from hence
until I come to expiate my crimes by suffering
the hardest sentence of the law; the just re-
ward of my crimes, they are more in number
than I can express, suffice to inform the cour-
teous Reader. there is not one commandment
in the Law of God which I have not broken;
only figure to your imagination a wretch re-
ceiving numberless blessings from my Crea-
tor and every moment experiencing his bounty
and goodness; and in stead of being grateful
to him for his kindness, endeavouring with all
my power to provoke him to wrath by still
heaping one execrable crime upon another,
breaking his sabbaths by rioting and daunk-
enness, blaspheming his holy name, and horid
to think, calling upon his name for damnation
to my soul, but I am unable to recite  the num-
ber of my sins or to paint them in their pro-
per collours, they are more in number than
the sand upon the sea shore and I am short-
ly to appear before Almighty God to answer
for these my numberless transgressions. O ! Al-
mighty and most gracious God seal the pardon
of them unto me with thine own blood before
I go hence and be no more that they may not
rise up in judgement against me, if I might
pesume to give advice, I would advise all
young persons to apply themselves with care
and attention to the Holy Sriptures, and at-
tending upon Gods ordinaces, and above all
to pray earnestly to God to give them grace
to guide them from evil, and add their honest
and best endeavours to live godly, righteons
and sober lives, it is of his mercy and goodness
that I was not cut of in the midst of my sins,
but have gotten some space to repeat, with
the wholsome advice and instructions of sever-
al good christians and worthy ministers, may
the Lord reward them for the care they have
taken for my soul. I have received great be-
nefit from them I crave forgivnness from all
whomever I offended, I freely forgive judges
and jury and all other persons acknowledging
the justness of my sentence and I hope the
Lord will forgive me , I die an unworthy
member of the church of Scotland, may the
Lord Jesus receive my spirit from the Gib-
bet.

WILLIAM TAYLOR.

Stirling   Tolbooth,
May 28th 1790.THE LAST SPEECH & DYING WORDS

OF THAT UNFORTUNATE

Potatoe Merchant
AND Mealmonger,

Who underwent the awful Sentence of the Law, on Wednesday the
14th January, 1824, and his body hung in  chains on the hill of
Ballengiech, for the abominable crime of Forstalling the Meal and
Potatoe Markets, and thereby raising the price of Provisions.

IT may be necessary, in the first place, to
say that the unfortunate man was faithfully
warned by the voice of a descrning public, of
the evil consequences attendant on such a con
duct, ond that in the end, it would infallibly
lead to shame, disgrace, and ruin—but, awful
to relate, he still rushed on his mad career,
until the iron hand of Justice arrested him.—
As his crime was so justly detested by the
people at large; he was no sooner tried than
he was, by a plurality of voices found Guilty.
Sentence was then passed by the Judge, which
was as follows :—

" You notorious criminal who are now found
guilty, must, without the least hope of mercy
be HANGED by the neck until you be dead!
dead! dead! &c. &c. and your body bung in
chains on the hill of Ballingeich, with your
crime printed in capital letters placed over its
head—-your flesh food for the fowls of the air,
and your bones bleached with the sun and 
rains of Heaven; that all who pass by may
know for what you suffer, and also that the
shocking crime of forestalling the Meal mar-
ket may be abhorred by the public to all fu
ture generations."

In consequence of the above sentence, the
unfortunate man, dressed in green clothes,
with a small bag of oatmeal in one hand, and
a potatoe in the other was conducted to the
gallows—where he in a short, but impressive
speech, addressed the audience as follows:—

" My dear fellow merchants, citizens, and
all present, you see what I am to suffer, and
all for the sake of Meal and Potatoes. I hope
you will take warning by my example, and
never try to enrich yourself by pinching the
bellies of the poor. I do confess that I suffer
justly, for my crime has been great in its nature,
 evil in its tendency, pernicious in its design,
and awful in its end. Its nature was bad, for
it involved in it the crime of Sabbath-breaking,
for I have often proclaimed it at the Parish 
Churches all round the country, which had the

evil tendency of taking off the attention of the
people from the solemn truths their pastor
had been teaching them—and the whole con
versation turned on the price of Meal and Po
tatoes. My design was truly pernicious, as I
intended to enrich myself by starving the poor.
And now you see the end is truly awful! I am
to suffer justly; and awful to say I die guilty!
My dear neighbours, I see I must have done
as it evidently appears I have few friends
here—-the very children exult in my death, as
the little rogues they devour their pieces of
cake loaded with butter, and munch their po-
tatoes and salt—the very hangman himself is
divested of all compassion towards unworthy
me--— do you not hear him saying, ' I shall soon
do the job-—Meal and Potatoes will soon be
cheap.' Therefore, soon I must suffer, and
all for the sake of Meal and Potatoes. I hope
my dear neighbours, you will all have the good-
ness to grant me the last request I shall ever
make, as it is with my dying breath- I request
that none of you will ever eat of Meal or Po-
tatoes, without remembering that 'thus I suf
fer for the exhorbitant prices of them." '

No sooner had the unfortunate man uttered
these words, than he made the signal to the
executioner, by dropping a small bag of oat-
meal from the one hand, and a potatoe from
the other, and was immediately launched from
the present into an eternal world. The hang-
man then exclaimed,  I have done the job,
Meal and Potatoes will be cheap.' The popu-
lace hailed his exit with three loud huzzas---__
one solitary voice cried out ' unfortunate man!'
which was soon traced to the young wife of a
farmer who had come to the market with meal
and potatoes, but, by the death of the unfor-
tunate Forestaller, was deprived of the high
price his commodities lately sold for.

He was attended in his devotions by the
Rev. Josiah Habakkuk of Ballengeich, and Je-
didiah Harrowfield, non conformist Minister
of Stibbleton.

printed by JOHN MUIR,Glasgow.THE Unhappy Transport's                                                           

Letter to his Father and Mother in Edinburgh.1833                 

JENK'S  PLANTATION , VANDLEMAN'S
September 4th, 1831.

DEAR  PARENTS,

I embrace this opportunity of writing,
hoping these lines will find you well.  With re-
spect to myself I have little to say : I have been
most miserable in this unhappy land. I  have suf-
fered every degradation of life : insult upon insult
have been heaped upon me ; I have been obliged
to associate with the most depraved of human be-
ing, my master's men. Separated from all hope
of comfort and enjoyment, debarred from all re-
ligious worship, I have been ready to murmur at
the decrees of the Almighty. What can I say to
you ? I am living one hundred and fifty miles
from Sydney, Up the mountains, forty miles from 
any place of worship.   The voice of prayer is never
heard, and all is blasphemy and wickedness ; and
I have to labour in the field at all kinds of toil, un-
der the heat of a meridian sun, and am become a-
like indifferent to comforts of all kinds. When I
am hungry I eat-when I am thirsty I drink ; I
receive my mess as another.    We grind in a hand-
mill-we bake in the ashes-and we live in miser-
able huts, which admit both wind and rain. A
sheet of cork and a bundle of straw is our bed, and
a blanket is our covering ; but fatigue is ours, and
we sleep as well as if on beds of down. A shirt
and duck trowsers form our dress.  I have learned
to reap, to shear sheep, to fell timber, to burn it
off, in short, I can do almost all laborious work.
Gracious God ! could the rising youth  but have a
single glance of the prisoner in New South Wales,
they would surely shun the temptation to crime.
The slightest offence provokes flowing ; insolence
is the bug-bear of the colony ; for this I have seen
men sent to an iron gang, to work in chains, and

be  half fanished, or tied up to receive the igno-
minious punishment of sixty or seventy-five lashes.
Shame on the name of Englishmen ! A man who
calls himself  a settler ,  first imposes upon his slaves,
and goads them on to speak, and then drags them
before a magistrate  to be lashed and tortured for
insolence.  If  a slave speak, the wretch's stomach
is taxed. We all feel a tenfold  degradation   here ;
we feel that we are slaves to paltry tyrants, who
seem as if they were born to add to the stings and 
torture's of wretched criminels.  If a Government
servant sees his master's  property going to ruin, it
is ten to one but he passes on and takes no notice ;
he argues that it is no interest of his ; and thus
the settler, by not studying his men's interest, for-
gets his own. The men receive no wages, and not
suffcient clothing   True, the authorities will say,
" Why do you not complain to us ? and it shall be
remedied " ; but do you think that many will, or
dare complain, when the authorities will support
the settler, and that the master is sure to take his
revenge ! Tea, sugar, and tobacco, are called in-
dulgences, and rest with the discretion of the mas-
ter, who seldom forgets to use his power like a
giant. With respect to liberty, it is a thing that
few now get possession of ; a Lifer must serve eight
years with one master,-ten with two,-and one
year additional for every additional master   The
smile of bitterness comes over my face whilst I
write this ; may God enable me to overcome this
sensation.  Why is a man debarred all chance of
liberty, whose conduct may be irreproachable ?
Much of the misery and crime committed by con-
victs may be attributed  to the almost total extinc-
tion of their hope of liberty.   As to myself, I once
did think of a mitigation, but all hopes are gone ;
I am like a piece of mechanism ; my spirit is so
such broken by disappointments and hardships,

that I feel a dreadful indifference creep upon me-
my life appears a blank, and futurity is my only
source of expectation.   One step alone appears be-
fore me ; I shall consider of it twelve months, and
then make my election.

Immediately on my landing in September 1827,
my fellow-userers and  I were assigned to settlers
up the country.  The master I was then assigned
to is still living, and I can have his testimonials as
to the blamelessness of my conduct.    I have also
the strongest testimonials of good conduct during
our passage. The Superintendant was very anxious
to gain me  some situation suitable to me, but the
letters he wrote to the  Secretary were neglected by
the chief mate, who was to send them on shore ;
and I was in consequence assigned to my present
employer, as his Excellency had signed it, and it
could not be reversed.

My health is much impaired, but complaints are
in vain.  I am sorry to inform you that poor Rob
Smith was lately executed at Sydney, in company
with five others, for being concerned in the robbery
and murder of their master and mistress.    But al-
though such executions are frequent, the repetition
of crime is daily occurring.    We are not permitted
to see a paper ; and, indeed, if we are seen to con-
verse much with each other, it is ten to one but we
are either dragged before a magistrate and punish-
ed with a severe flogging, or else some of our pro-
visions ore stopped.   I hope and trust you will
make this letter as public as possible ; and that it
may be the means of turning many from their pre-
sent dishonest practices, is the earnest prayer of

YOUR  UNFORTUNATE SON,

JOHN PATERSON.

When you write to me, direct in the same manner
as you sent the last Trial and Sentence!

A True and Particular ACCOUNT of the TRIAL and SENTENCE of
JANET DOUGLAS, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day the 15th Day of October next, for Child Stealing!!!

AT Edinburgh, on Monday last, the 8th day of
 September, 1817, came on, before the High
Court of Justiciary, the Trial of JANET DOU-
GLAS, accused of Plagium, or Man-Stealing, The
Indictment set forth, that the pannel did, upon Mon-
day the 12th day of May last, wickedly steal and bar-
barously carry away Margaret Reach, a child betwixt
three and four years of age, the daughter of James
Reach, mason at King's stables, in the parish of St.
Cuthberts, Edinburgh, from the house of her father,
or from some place in the vicinity thereof; and being
pursued soon after the said inhuman theft was perpe-
trated, she was apprehended at the colliery of Hal-
heath, in the county of Fife, upon Wednesday the
13th day "of the said month of May, having the said
child in her custody.

To this indictment the pannel pleaded Not Guilty.

    James Reach, mason at King's stables, has three

children, his daughter Margaret is betwixt three and
four years of age. On the 12th of May, being a
Monday, on coming home to dinner his wife told him
his daughter Margaret was lost. Witness went to
enquire at the Police Office; sent the town crier
through, but could get no information concerning her.
Next morning, about four oclock, rose and went to-
wards Whitehouse Toll, from thence to Leith, and
enquired at the Police Office there if they had seen a
strayed, child; got no information; returned home;
was told the child was certainly stolen ; went on the
Queensferry road ; enquired at every house, and some
women at a barn thought they saw a woman with a
child of the description he gave the day before, the
toll-man at Craigleath told him the same ; came to a
Miss Marshall's, who told him she had given a woman
with a child, who said she had come from the Cape of
Good Hope, a penny to help her over the Ferry.
Witness went to the Ferry, and found a woman and
a child had passed, but the boatman said he thought
the child was at the breast; and that he had taken
her over gratis. Witness returned to Miss Marshall's
and stated he did not think the child was his ; told
him to go a porter's lodge, where he got farther infor-
mation, and crossed the Ferry, went to a man who
had seen the woman with a child, who said she was
going to Dumferline, went to a magistrate, who or-
dered the lodgings to be searched. A man gave him
some information, and be went to Halheath, and
found the child in a house, but the woman was not.
She was out for some necessaries, and upon her return
he asked her where she had got the child, she said she
had got it at Edinburgh from her aunt. The child
had all its clother, but bonnet and slip, which it said
was in the woman's bundle, the child said that a wo-
man had taken her from Logan's entry, gave her
some sweatmeats, and said she would take her to her
grandmother. The woman said she had given her
child to her aunt to nurse, and had got this one in its
place; and if she was in Edinburgh, she would soon

clear herself. The pannel at the bar is the woman ;
he got a warrant and took her into custody. When
taken before a magistrate she acknowledged she had
stolen the child. When the child saw witness it ex-
pressed great joy, and took him round the neck and
kissed him,

Marion Brown, wife of the preceding witness, stat-
ed that the child left the house about half eleven o'
clock to go to a neighbour's house; she did not go
there, and every search was made for her, and wit-
ness did not see her till two days afterwards, when
her father brought her home, saying he had found her
at Halbeath Colliery ; the child was dressed in a light
frock, a green bonnet, and checked pin-afore.

Helen Brotherston, wife of John Anderson, labour-
er at Bell's mills, recollects the pannel coming to her
house on Monday, with a child, asking liberty to take
off her shoes and stockings, as it was a bad day, said
the child was her own. It. had on a light gingham
frock, and green bonnet. Woman said she was going
to Dunfermline to her father, who kept the head Inn
there. She named the child Jeany. The pannel at
the har, she is quite sure, is the woman,

Grace M'Pherson, wife of William Brown, at Brae-
head, parish of Cramond, recollects a woman with a
child coming to her house on a Monday in May, about
half past three o'clock, she wished to warm the child.
Witness asked her if she had carried the child from
the town, to which she answered she had carried it
from the Cape of Good Hope. Witness gave the
child some broth, but the woman said it could not take
broth with turnips in it. She said the chiln was three
years old, and was born on a new year's morning.
The child was not crying, but looked so pitiful that
witness asked her what ailed her; the woman said
she cried for her mammy, because, when in the Cape
of Good Hope, a woman kept her while she washed
clothes. The pannel at the bar, the witness is quite
sure, is the woman. Witness saw the child when ta
ken home on the father's back.

The Solicitor-General addressed the Jury in a very
few words; and Mr White for the pannel, in which
he endeavoured to show that there was not here a fel-
onious taken away—that pressed with extreme po.
verty and want, the pannel had taken the child for
the purpose of exciting compassion and procuring em-
ployment—that this was clearly proved by her in-
stantly proceeding to the colliery of Hallbeath and
getting into work; and he trusted that, from her
youth and ignorance, she would meet with the mercy
of the Jury.

The Lord Justice-Clerk having summed up the evi-
dence, the Jury without leaving the box, immediately
found the pannel GUILTY.

The Lord Justice-Clerk pointed out the enormity
of the crime she had committed, and sentenced her to
suffer the punishment of death in this City, on Wed-
nesday the 15th of October next.

Edinburgh: Printed for the Booksellers.—PRICE ONE PENNY.Trial  and Sentence.

JOSEPH ALLISON and MAXWELL ALLISON were charged
with having, on the 27th May last, at or near to the house in
Fisher Street, Stranraer, county of Wigton, then occupied by Joseph
Allison, attacked and assaulted James Mourne, or Morrin, or M'-
Morrin, flesher, and stab him with a bayonet, or other sharp weapon,
whereby he was mortally wounded, and almost immediately ex-
pired. The pannels pleaded not guilty.

James M'Crea, shoemaker, was in Prince's Street, Stranraer, about
2 o'clock on Sunday morning 27th May, when Morrin was killed.
Witness, on the morning referred to, was going along Prince's
Street towards Fisher Street, and saw the two prisoners, and John
and William Allison, sons of Joseph, at the door of a house named
Hainey's in Prince's Street. Saw Armstrong come out of it along
with James Torrance and Hugh Willie. When the men came out
of the house the Allisons went in the direction of Joseph Allison's
house, in Fisher Street, and the men followed, as did wituess. He
then saw Morrin fall near Allison's house. Witness was about 20
yards from him. Morrin was about six or eight feet off the door
of Allison's house. Witness could not say what made Morrin fall.
Saw no person near him when he fell : but just a moment before
saw the two prisoners near him. Did not see either of the prison-
ers do anything to Morrin. The Allisons were between the door
and Morrin, and Morrin between the witness and the Allisons —
Maxwell Allison had a stick, and Joseph had a grape. Could not
say in what position the grape was held. The Allisons went im-
mediately into the house after Morrin fell. There were no one
nearer Morrin than witness' self, except the Allisons. When Mor-
rin fell witness caught him in his arms. He said nothing but died
instantly, without even uttering a groan.

Alexander Adam, printer, and James Campbell corroborated M'-
Crea's evidence. Ann  Main or Hashwell—lives at the corner of
Fisher Street and Prince's Street. Her house is next to Hainey's.
Was at home on the morning of the 27th May, and heard a dis-
turbance between 12 and 1 o'clock. In the fore part of the night
there was a great noise of swearing, Witness looked out at her
Prince's Street window, and saw a number of persons running
backwards and forewards. The noise continued for some time, and
began, again a little before 2 o'clock. The noise was in front of
her Prince's Street window—of persons talking of what had been
the fight the previous part of the night, and how they got on. Saw
Robert Willie; a young man, a printer; William Johnstone ; M'-
Cormack, a sailor ; Robert Armstrong's wife, and others. These
all went into Hainey's, and there was quietness for some time.—
Witness went to bed, and about a querter of an hour afterwards
was awoke by hearing a great disturbance coming round the corner
from Allison's. Got up, and looked out at Prince's Street window,
and saw a number of persons opposite the window. Knew only
Joseph Allison, and went to the door, and had a little conversation
with him. Witness mentioned the disturbance to him, when he
said he was sorry he had offended witness, or any of the neigh-
bours. He was speaking of the disturbance, when a brother, who
is not one of the prisoners, came up, and began a story of his wife
being ill ; that he had been working through the day and got wages,
and was going for medicine to his wife, when the money was taken
from him. Saw Joseph Allison have a stick under his arm, and
in his breast something fixed, to which a string was attached.
Mrs Campbell, who lives in the same house with witness was
looking out at the window, when witness saw something glance,
and she said to Mrs Campbell, " God Almighty, this man has got
a knife in his breast." After this, heard " Murder " often repeated,

Charlotte Callum or Campbell corroborated the statement of the
previous witness. Remembers Mrs Hashwell saying, " God Al-
mighty, Charlotte, look at the knife."

After several other witnesses were examined, the Solicitor-
General addressed the jury, and insisted on a verdict against Joseph
Allison.—Mr A Simpson, for the panels, followed, when Lord
Moncrieff summed up. The Jury, by a plurality, found Joseph
Allison Guilty of Murder, as libelled, and Maxwell Allison not
Guilty.

This morning, the unfortunate man was sentenced to be taken
back to Stranraer, to be fed on bread and water till Tuesday the
7th of August next, and then, between the hours of two and four,
be executed there.

Menzies, Printer.TRIALS

AND SENTENCES,

Just published, the Trials and Sentences of the
different culprits who were tried this day before
the Lords of Justiciary in Edinburgh, among
whom were Walter Cunningham, a convict re-
turned from banishment; John Sutherland, a
baker, for theft; and James Graham for traffic-
ing in bad coin.

Monday, 10th December, 1332.

This day the Lords of Justiciary sat on the fol-
lowing trials, viz :—

John Sutherland, a lad about 15 years of age,
pled guilty to a charge of stealing a black coat
from the house of Angus Forbes, Jamaica Street,
aggravated by being habit and repute a common
thief,having been several times convicted of theft.
Sentenced to 7 years transportation.

Walter Cunningham, a stout middle aged man,
who was transported beyond seas by sentence of
the High Court of Justiciary in the year 1821, was
again placed at the bar on a charge of stealing a
great number of articles of wearing apparel from
a house in Newington, aggravated by his having
been formerly convicted of theft.

The prisoner pleaded guilty to the charge.

The Lord Justice Clerk, in pronouncing sen-
tence, said that he took this oppertunity of intimat-
i ng to the pannel that since he had left the colony,
a great alteration had been made by an Act of
Parliament, which greatly altered the law regard-
ing the punishment of convicts found guilty of
any felonious act; and that if he trespassed the
laws there, there would be no alternative but to
pronounce upon him the sentencc of a public ex-
ecution.

He was then sentenced to seven years transportation.

James Graham, a young man, dressed in a sailor's garb,
was next impanneled on two different acts.

1st.—-With attempting to buy, sell. pay, put off, or offering
base or counterfeit coin, in so far, that on one or other of the
days of July last, he did feloniously offer an imitation of a
genuine half crown for 15J, to Ann Liston, brochel keeper,
Paterson's Court, Lawnmarket.

2d.-With having in his possession eight counterfeit six-
pences, knowing the same to be counterfeit.

Mrs Liston deponed that the pannel came to his house one
day in July last, and enquired at her if she would buy any
flash, at the same time giving her a counterfeit half crown to
shew to her mistress, (supposing witness' to be the servant,)
and if it pleased her she could be provided with a pound's
worth of sixpences, shillings or half crowns, at half price.
The prisoner then went away, saying that he would call  back
again for an order. Witness having lodged information
with the police of what had happened, and the prisoner was
seized upon on his return.

Mrs Crant, who also keeps a bagnio, and resides next door
to the last witness, deponed that she overheard what passed
between the prisoner and Mrs Liston.

Eric Campbell aud Charles Ramage, deponed that they  searched the pri-
soner and found a base sixpence on his person and other seven in a box in his
lodgings, Dickson's Close,

Both charges   being  proved, (he prisoner was  sentenced  to  seven   years
   transportation,TRIALS

AND SENTENCES.

just published, a correct account of the Trials and
Sentences of the different prisoners that came on be-
fore the High Court of Justiciary, this day-----Four
Catholics for attempting to murder a man for being a
Protestant, at Queensferry—Janet Ferguson, for Char-
ters, for Robbery of jewels, pearls, diamonds. gold aud
silver plate, from General Sir james Gordon. 

David Dobbie, a boy about 14 years of age, pleaded guilty to a
charge of housebreaking and robbery, in so far as that he entered
a stable belonging to Mrs Hamilton, residing at Bathgate. and
stealing therefrom, four empty bottles, aggravated by being habit
aud [and] repute a thief. Sentenced to 12 months in Bridewell.

Michael Gillon, Felix Higgans, or Figgans, Bernard Broadley,
and Francis M'Mannus, were charged with assaulting and striking
James M'Lucky, constable in Queensferry, to the effusion of blood
and danger of his life, in the house of the said Francis M'Man-
nis, on the morning of the twenty fifth November. M'Lucky
and his brother were the only witnesses for the Grown. The
accuser deponed that, having entered M'Mannis's honse in search
for his brother, he was attacked by the prisoner, who threw him
down and struck him with a pair of tongs. The witness could
not acconnt for this diabolical treatment.

Two exculpatory witnesses were brought forfard, who swore
diametrically opposite to what had been emitted py those called
forward by the prosecutor. The Jury retiring, returned a verdict
finding the libel not proven. The prisoner was then dismissed
from the bar.

Janet Lergnson or Charters, late in the service of Mrs Alison
Walker, or Henry, was charged with being art and part in a rob-
bery, by embezzling property consisting of pearls, precious gems,
gold aud silver plate, and valuable articles of wearing apparel,
amounting to about £5000 the property of lady Gordon, wife of
Sir James Gordon, of Gordonstone, and Litterfourie, at present
residing in Albany Street. The indictment enumerated two
hundred and 19 charges, comprising nearly a 1000 articles, and
filled eight closely printed pages.

The public is aware that Mrs Henry was brought to trial on
the same charge about three months ago, when she admitted the
charge, and was sentenced So fourteen years transportation,

The pannel pleaded not guilty. and the trial proceeded, A
number of witnesses being examined, among whom were Sir
James and Lady Gordon.

The list of the articles were read over, which oc-
copied the Court for a very considerable time, and a
great number of them were produced in Court, which
were found in the possession of the pannel, and
brought in evidence against her.

The principal articles produced was a gold ring set
with valuable jewels, and which was identified by lady
Gordon.

Lord Gillies   proposed  that   the pannel  should be
transported for 14 years.

The Jury having returned a xerdict of guilty, the prisoner was
sentenced to 14 years transportation.

Forbes & Co Printers,  171  Cowgate.Trials, &c.

A Full  and Very Particular account of the Trials of the different
Persons who stood their Trials before the Special Commission,
which opened at Paisley, on Tuesday the 1st of August, 1820.

The Lords Commissioners appointed by the Special Com-
mission of Oyer and Terminer, for Trying all Treasons and
Misprisions of Treasons, committed within the counties of Stir-
ling, Lanark, Dumbarton  Renfrew, and Ayr, opened their
proceedings here on Tuesday morning. The following were
the Lords .Commissioners.—The Lord President of the Court of
Session, the Lord Justice Clerk, the Lord Chief Baron of the
Court of Exchequer, the Lord Chief Commissioner of the Jury
Court, and Lord Pitmilly. John Hulleck, Esq. Serjeant at
Law, assisted at the trials, and Mr. Thomas George Knapp,
Clerk in the Arraigns of the Home Circuit in England, acted
as Clerk to the Commissioners.

On the part of the Crown the Counsel were the Lord Adve-
cate, the Solisitor-General, Mr. Hullock, Mr. H. H. Drum-
mond, and Mr. Hope, the Lord Advocate's Deputes, Mr. Men-
zies, Mr. Knapp—and Mr. James Arnot, W. S.Agent.On
the opposite slde of the table sat, Mr. J. A. Murray, Mr. Gra-
ham. Mr. Monteith, Mr. Pyper, Mr. Cullen, Mr. Miller, and
Mr. Sandford, Advocates; and Mr. Harmer, the English Bar-
rister, who, we believe, conducted the trials which lately took
place at Manchester.—Agent, Mr. Fleming.

The Court met for business in George Street Church,
and was opened about nine o'clock, and in a few min-
utes was crowded with people, who engerly pushed into
the Court Hall for the purpose of hearing the trials. The
Lord President addressed the Court; after which

JAMES SPIERS, weaver, in Johstone, and ROBERT
LANG, weaver, Kilbarchan, were brought into Court. The pri-
soners  were brought from the Jail to the Church in a coach,
escorted by a party of Hussars, and entered under a charge of
two Police Officers. SPIERS was first put to the bar.

The Clerk of the Crown then read over the list of the petit
Jury, which consisted of the following Gentlemen:—

Sir M. Shaw Stewart, of Greenock and Blackhall, Bart.
Foreman,      
Alan Ker, of Greenock, merchant,
John M'Naught, of Glen Park, near Greenock,
Robert Hunter, of,Kirk Street, Gteenock,                       
James Coats, of Paisley, manufacturer,
Matthew Roger, of Ropland,
Alexander Lelper, of Paisley, merchant,
Gavin Browning, of Paisley, merchant,
David Trail, of Paisley, dyer,
John Gibson, of Paisley, cotton yarn merchant,
Thomas Wright, of Paisley, perfumer,
James Wilson, of Palsley, silk merchant.

The indictment having been read over, charging him with
being chosen and acted as a member of a committee who com-
manded a mob which went and stopped the cotton works at
Johnston and neighbourhood, on the 3d of April. To this in-
dictment Spiers pleaded Not Guilty.

 As Robert Lang was summoned as an evidence against the
prisoner, Mr, Grant objected to his being in Court, and he was
tahen out of Court. John Frazer, who had been confined four
months on a similar charge to that of the prisoner, gave evi-
dence on the part of the Crown and was set at liberty. The
evidence on the part of the Crown closed at half-past twelve
O'clock, and the Court adjourned till next morning.

WEDNESDAY.—Eleven witnesses were examined on be-
haif of the prisoner; and their evidence went generally to show
 that Spiers, although present at the meeting on the School-
green at Kilbarchan, on the 3d April last, took no particular
charge of the business, neither did he make a speech, &c.

Mr. J. P. Grant; the Lord Advocate, and the Lord Justice
Clerk, severally delivered their opinions on the case at great
length. The Jury retired about a quarter before four o'clock
in the morning, and at half past five came into Court with a
verdict, finding him Guilty on the 15th over-act of the first
count, but this not being considered the regular mode of re-
tnrning the finding, they were ordered to retire and return a
special verdict, but they twice returned into Court with the
same verdict. They were then addressed by the Lord Chief
Baron, and they retired for the fourth lime; but immediately
returned with a verdict of Not Guilty, and the audience in gene-
ral commenced cheering.

The huzzaing commenced by the crowd out of doors the
moment the cheering commenced in the Church, and the Sheriff
was ordered to go out and take means to preserve the peace.

The Lord Justice Clerk, in an impressive speech, dismissed
him from the bar.-Spiers served several years as lance-serjeant
of the 26th Regiment of Foot, but left the service owing to a
pain in his breast.

JOHN LANG was then put to the bar—the Jury found him,
Not  Guilty, and after a suitable admonition from the Lord
Justice Clerk, he was dismissed from the bar; and the Court
adjourned till the 1st of December.

An immense crowd surrounded Mr. Grant and Mr. Sandford
on their leaving the Court, and accompanied them to their lod-
gings. The multitude, amounted to about 10,000

The Court meats at Stirling to-morrow (Friday) August 4.

GLASGOW, PRINTED BY JOHN MUIR.WHIPPING



A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of ALEXANDER M'KAY ,and WILLIAM
M'DONALD, for Assult and Stabbing on the Streets
of Edinburgh ; the former of whom is to be Publicly
Whipped, on a Platform at the head of Libberton's
Wynd, on Wednesday the 27th July, 1825, at one
o'Clock afternoon, and to be afterwards Banished for
Seven years ; and M'Donald, to be confined inBrid-
well forTwelve months, at Hard Labour.

ON Tuesday the  12th July, 1825, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary, the Trial of ALEXANDER M'KAY
and WILLIAM M'DONALD, accused of assaulting and striking
William Wilson, blacksmith, in the Grassmarket of the city, in may
last, and of stabbing him with a pocket-knife in the side, to the
effusion of his blood,  and  danger of his  life.    M'Kay,  pleaded
Guilty,   and  M'Donald   Not  Guilty.       (M'Kay,  it  will   be  re-
membered, was convicted some time ago for shop-breaking, and
sentened to be executed,but escaped inconsequence of its having been
found that one of the jury was a minor.) from the evidence of
William Wilson, it appeared, that on the evening of the 25th of
May last, he was going towards his  home, in  the  Cowfeeder-row
through the Graassmarket, when the prisoner M'Donald came up to
him, from a group of about six persons,who were on  the  opposite
side of the street, and firist asked him some queston, to   which  he
replied he was mistaken, and walked on, but the prisoner followed
and struck him, when witness riturned the blow, and knocked him
down.     M'Kay then struck Wilson, and was served by him in the
same manner.  they both, however, rose, and again attacke Wilson,
when M'Donald was again  struck down,   but in  the  meantime,
M,Kay struck the witness below the left briest.     He  at  firist  felt
only a blow but soon: found that he was wounded, and ran up to a
watchman, whom he told he was   stabbed,  and  showed  him   the
blood flowing down his side,   under  his clothes    The   two  pris
oners came up, and were seized and  carried  to the  Police  office,
where his wounds was examined by the surgeon.    He was confined
to bed for ten days, in consequence of the wound.     He stated that
he had done nothing to provoke the assult, but was walking quitly
along with his hands in his pocket.    He still felt uneasiness   from
the wound when at work,

Alexander Irvine a brassfounder, who was a bystander on the
occasion, described the aussult almost in the same words as Wilson
had done, and stated further, that M'Kay came up towards the
watchman, when he saw a knife in his hand, which soon, however,
disappeared, but he understood it was afterwards found near the
spot by a watchman,and witness now identffied it.

Aurther Morgan, a wrtchman assisted in taking the prisoners to
the police office, and returning afterwards to the place, found the
knife, which he indentified.but could not say if there was blood on
it at the time.

Alexander Black, strgeon to the police estibishment, decribed the
the wound which was as deep as the whole length of the blade
(about two inches.) Wilson lost a great deal of blood, and was in a
very dangerous state. The knife fortunately struck on the fifth rib,
and glanced upwards upon the forth else, it must instantly have
have proved fatal.

The jury returned a viva voice verdict, finding M'Kay guilty of
the assault and stabbing, and M'Donald guilty of assulting and strik-
ing as libelled, and M'Kay was sentenced to be publicly whipped
on a platform to beerected at the common place of executions, between
the hours of twelve and two, on Wednesday the 27th July current,
previous to transportation beyond seas for seven years, and M'Donald
to be confined in Bridwell for twelve months, and during that period
to be kept at hard labour.

Edinburgh: Printed for Wilham Robertson... Price One Penny.



                 WHIPPING!

An Account of the Trial and Sentence of THOMAS
HAY, for Stabbing William Moffat, in Leith,on 
18th of July last and who was, this day, pub-
licly whipped through that Town.

A Case came on for Trial on the 2d of February, 1824, unpara-
  lelled by the recent atrocity in Hertfordshire, and can only
be compared to some of the crimes which the busy tongue of ru-
mour had alleged against Thurtell and his gang. In the present
instance, the accused, Thomas Hay, resided in a solitary manner in
a house in King Street, Leith, no living creature cohabited with
him Having fitted up his inner room as a human sloughter-house,
he set out one morning in July last in quest of his intended victim,
whom he decoyed to the place of sacrifice, and against whom he
aimed the murderous blow, but happily failed in the accomplish-
ment of his diabolical purpose.

The indictment having been read, the panel pleaded, " I am not
guilty my Lord, but Mr Wilson is guilty of rousing me out of my
bed this morning, and bringing me here without my breakfast, a
state, I presume, which no one present is in but myself."

Mr William Mcffat, Wright  in Leith, said that on the 18th of
July last, he was walking, and met the prisoner about 3 in the
morn ing, who asked him to go along with him to see some repairs
he had to make, and requested him to send away two dogs that fol-
lowed the witness, as the pannel had a cat and kittens in the house,
When they got in th  house, the pannel locked and bolted the door;
prisoner pressed him to go into another room, from the one he first
entered, witness did so, and observed to the pannel that his wax-
doth on the floor was not properly laid down, for the red side was
upper most, and the ends lying against the chairs and bed instead
of being laid below them. The pannel invited me to take a glass
of spirits, he then said that he had bought some property in Edin-
burgh, and wished witness to put up some partitions, and wished
him to go and settle with the person he bought the property from,
as his leg was so sore he could not go himself, and asked witness
to make a receipt, for what money he would entrust him with,
which was £228, and rhewed him 12 £20 pound notes. The pan-
gave him a letter to read, while doing so he lift up his eyes and saw
prisoner standing over him.and making a thrust with a knife, which
in ettempting to ward off the blow he received it in his, arm, wit
uess wrestled with him, and threw him against the bed, and held
him on the floor, and succeeded in taking the knife from him, but
got the leader of one of the fingers of the right hand, and the lead-
ers of all the fingers of the left hand cut He then opened the
door and called for assistance. Prisoner was not intoxtcated at the
time. Had nev er quarrelled with the prisoner, nor had any words
with the prisoner before he stabbed him.

The pannel's declaration was read. Among other things it sta-
ted that Mr Moffat made up to the drisoner in Giles strett, on the
morning in question, and accompanied him to the house ; that the
wound was occasioned by his foot tripping while he had the knife
in his hand cuttiud bread and cheese with it, that in falling he up
set the table and cut Mr Moffat's arm. He (declarant) was unable
ro say where he purchased the knife, which appeared new and never
to have been used for any other purpose. He was unable to ac-
count for many other eircumstances, and refused to answer several
pertinent questions.

After observations at considerable length from the public prose-
cutor, in which he shewed she enormity of the crime of which
the pannel is guilty, and which was powerfully answered by the
pannel's agent, the jury deliberated a short time, and returned a
verdict of guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk, previous to pronouneing sentcuce, dwelt
greatly on the heinous nature of the crime of which the pannel was
found guilty, and remarked, that had his case been in England, the
last sentence of the law would have been awarded against him, his
Lordship then delivered the sentence of the law, viz. that he will
be transported beyond seas for the period of 14 years ; and previous
to which, to be publicly whipt through the streets of Leith, on
Wednesday the 18th February, 1824, which was accordingly done
this day.                  PRICE ONE PENNY.An account of the trial of eight Soldiers belonging to Breadalbane
Regiment of Fencibles, for a mutiny in the city of Glasgow, four
of whom received sentence of death, three of which received a par-
don at the place of execution, and the fourth was shot on Tuesday
the 27th day of January 1795.

The following is a true and accurate account of
the mutiny of the Breadalbane Fencibles, which
has for some time past, greatly agitated and alarmed
the minds of the inhabitants of this city.-

On Monday, the 22d of December a soldier of
the first battalion of the Breadalbane fencible regi-
ment, now quartered in this city, having been con-
fined in the guard-house upon an accusation of
having been guilty of a militaty offence, a party of
the regiment, with muskets and fixed bayonets,
assembled round the guard-house, & obliged their
officers to set him at liberty : after committing this
out rage, they behaved quietly and peaceably, and
did regimental duty in the usual manner, though
the spirit of mutiny still subsisted to such a degree,
that the private soldiers would not agree to give up
the soldier who had been released nor the ring-lead-
ers in the mutiny, to be tried for their crimes. Lord
Adam Gordon, Commander in Chief for Scotland
immediatly adopted the most vigorous measures
for apprehending the mutineers, by collecting,
round the city, all the troops which could be spared,
and general Leslie, Sir James Stewart, and Colonel
Montgomerie, came to town to take the command
of them, with a determined resolution forcibly to
lay hold of the aggressors, in case they were not
delivered up by the regiment ; but, before proceed-
ing to force them, it was thought proper to give the
regiment a short time to reflect on their conduct
and the danger in which they stood, if they did not
of their own accord do, what was deter-
mined should otherways be done by force of
arms. This prudent experiment happily succeed-
ed four of the ring-leaders having surrendered
themselves voluntary & unconditionally, on Tues-
day morning last, to Lord Breadalbane, who
were that day merched prisoners to Edinburgh,
under a strong guard of their own regiment, com-
manded by Capt. Campbell of the grenadiers, The
Hon Major Leslie, and Mr M'Lean, adjutant of
the regiment; having accompanied the party a short
way, were, upon their return to town, insulted by
a number of persons at the Townhead, who as-
saulted them with stones and other missile weapons
by one of which Major Leslie was knocked down ;
and he and Mr M'Lean were forced to take shelter
in a house, where they secured themselves from
the mob (who attempted to break open the door
and windows to get at them) till the Lord Provost,
Magistrates, and Officers, and the company of the
Breadalbane regiment, who weee on duty at the
guard-house; arrived and relived them from their
disagreeable and dangerous situation ; but, before
the Magistrates arrived the mob had dispersed and
remained quiet eversince; although the Magistrates
and General Officers in town have juged it prudent
to take every precaution to prevent tumult, by
detaining a squadron of the dragoons which had
been sent for from Kilmarnock, and ordering the
Royal Glasgow Volueteers to be on duty during
the night, The party of the Breadalbane regiment
who were called to assist the Magestrates in sup-
pressing the riot, behaved with the utmost ala-

crity and propriety, and received the thanks of
the Lord Provost. On Wednesday, the other
principal ring leader in the mutiny surrendered
himself, and was sent off prisoner to Edinburgh;
The punishment of the mutineers, it is hoped, will
prove a useful warning & admonition to the army
and convince them that crimes of such atrocity will
not pass with impunity...

Notwithstanding this unfortunate affair, it is but
justice to observe, that in every other view, the sol-
diers of this regiment have, upon all occasions, be-
haved themselves with the greatest sobriety, and
that they have been, and still are upon the best of
terms with their officers.

On the 12th of January the Court Martial met
in the Castle  of Edinburgh   for the trial of the
soldiers  for   mutiny,  belonging   to   Breadalbane
Fencibles,   composed  of the  following Officers;

viz.              

 Colonel H. Montgomerie, 3d fencible regiment,
President.
Lieut. Col. Hon. James Stuart, 2d fencibles.   
Lieut. Col. Com. Ilay  Ferrier,   3d battalion
Scotch Brigade
Major John Grant, 1st fencibies.                   
Major Chsrles Pye 3d dragoons. 
Captain Malcolm M'Niel, 5th sfncibles.
Captain Bohun Shore, 4th dragoons.
Captain William Cunningham, 4th fencibles.
Captain Robert Cummings,   1st fencibles
Captain Andrew Houston, 7th fencibles.
Captain Colin D  Graham, 3d battalion Scotch
brigade.
Captain James Douglas, ditto.
Captain G. P. Hutchinson, 4th dragoons.       
Extra Members------Major   George   Lind, 3d
battalion Scotch brigade.
Captain Kenneth M'Kay, 2d fencibles.            
Alexander Frazer Tytler,   Esq; his Majesty's
Judge Advocate.

The Court having finished their business, their
sentence was sent to the commander in chief  to be
laid before his Majesty.

The sentences of the General Court Martial
having been published to the effect of being made
known to the prisoners ; on Sunday the 25th of
January, by order of the Commander in Chief,
Captain William Cunningham of the 4th fencible
regiment, Attended by Mr. Robertson M'Gregor,
Minister of the Gaelic Chapel, went to the  Castle
to intimate the sentence to the unfortunate pri-
soners.  Four have received sentence of death ;
and four sentenced to corporal punishment.

On Tuesday morning the four under sentence 
of death were taken  out of the Castle and convey-
ed in two mourring coaches, guarded with two
troops of horse to a field about two miles from
town, where they were to be shot, but threee of
them were pardoned, and one who had deserted
and likewise been among the mutineers was shot.
It is said his name is Sutherland.an account of the Trial of ROBERT BROwN ANDERSON, and JAMES MENZIES, alias Ro-
BERTSON, before the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Stirling, for Shop-breaking and Theft,
at Grahamstown, near Falkirk, who were sentenced is be executed at Stirling, on. Friday
the 11th of october, 1811.

      STIRLING, SEPTEMBER 9,
THE   Circuit Court  of Justiciary was
   opened here on Saturday last, by the
Right Honourable Lord Hermand.

Robert Cochnan, sawyer in Alloa, indict-
ed for forging and vitiating documents of
debt, was outlawed for not appearing.

The Court then proceeded to the trial of
Robert Brown Anderson, and James Men-
zies, or Robertson, prisoners in Stirling jail,
accused of breaking into the shop of James
[  ell, merchant in Grahamston, near Fal-
kirk on the night of Saturday the 23d of

February last, and stealing therefrom a cask
of brandy, two chests of tea, a drawer con-
taining copper coin, and a loaf of sugar

John Burns, changekeeper in .Falkirk,
Elizabeth Williams, his wife, and Alexander
Logan, changekeeper in Denny, were in-
cluded in the same indictment, for resetting
the said goods, knowing the same to have
been stolen. The trial lasted till Sunday
 morning; and this day the Jury returned a
verdict, by a plurality of voices finding the

  libel proven against Anderson and Menzies,
but recommended them to mercy.    Unani-
mously finding Burns and his wife Guilty;

and by a plurality of voices Not Proven a-
gainst Logan. Anderson and Menzies were
sentenced to be executed here on the 11th of
october next. Burns and his wife to be
transported for 14 years, and Logan was
assoilzied and dismissed from the bar.

The Court were next occupied with the
trial of Thomas Coventry, for the forgery of
a bill of L.30. At the conclusion of the
evidence, the Advocate-Depute restricted the
libel to an arbitrary punishment, and the Jury
returned a verdict, finding the libel Proven.
He received sentence of transportation for
seven years.

      AYR, SEPTEMBER  12.
 The   Circuit  Court   of   Justiciary  was
opened here, on Friday, by the Right Ho-
 nourable Lord Justice Clerk and Lord Ar-

madale.

 The Court were occupied during the
 greater part of that day with the trial of
Alexander Kerr, sen. and Alexander Ker,
jun. Archibald Cook, James Nichol, and
John Murphy, indicted for the crimes of
assaulting and deforcing certain of the Ayr
Customhouse Officers.

The general facts libelled were distinctly

     sworn to by  James Campbell,  tidewaiter,
as affecting all the prisoners, and by John

Taylor, tidewaiter, as affecting three of
them, with the addition of the specific facts
committed by Archibald Cook and Alexan-
der Ker, jun. in knocking him down, and
kicking and trampling on him. The evi-
dence on the part of the prosecution being
closed, and some exculpatory witnesses ex-
amined, William Boswell, Esq. Advocate-
Depute, addressed the Jury in a short ener-
getic speech, in which he maintained that
it was abundantly clear that all the pannels
had been engaged in the smuggle, and that
three of them had been guilty of the assault
and deforcement—and by james Ferguson,
Esq. senior Counsel for the prisoneis, who
employed much ingenuity in endeavouring;
to show, that the evidence had completely
failed, inresect to Alexander Ker, sen. and
John Murphy, and that it was defective in
as far as it related to the identifying of the
other three. After which his Lordship short-
ly summed up the evidence, and stated that
it came completely home to the pannels
Alex. Ker, jun. Archibald Cook, and James
Nichol. The Jury returned a verdict on
Saturday morning of Guilty against the said
Alex. Ker, jun. Archd. Cook, and James
Nichol, and of Not Proven in the case of
Alex. Ker, sen. and John Murphy, upon
which these two last were dismissed from the
Bar, with a suitable admonition from the
Lord Justice Clerk, who pointed out to them
in forcible language the illegality of smug-
gling, with respect to the revenue and the
fair trader, the guilt to which it frequently
led, and the dangerous conlequences with
which it was often followed.

Alex. Ker, jun. Archd. Cook, and James
Nichol, were sentenced to fix months' Jm-
prisonment, and to seven years' banishment
from Scotland.

Afterwards John Armstrong, sometime
sailar on board the Helena, of Workington,
was brought to the Bar, accused of the crime
of Rape; but no evidence having been ad-
duced to identify his person, during the
commission of the crime, the Jury returned
a verdict, finding the libel Not Proven; and
he was, therefore, dismissed from the Bar,
after a most feeling and impressive admoni-
tion from Lord Armadale.

The Public Prosecutor not considering
himself justified in proceeding with the trial
of John Grafs, indicted for Murder, on ac-
count of the absence of some material wit-
nesses, deserted the diet pro loco et tempore.

Printed by T. dunoan, 159, Saltmarket.An Account of the Trial and Sentence of Alexander Robertson, Alexander
Archibald, James Dickson and James McMillan, for breaking into the City
Auction Mart, in the Candleriggs, Glasgow.

HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY, EDINBURGH, 1st March,  1813. 

Monday, the Court proceeded to the trial of Alexander Robertson, Alexander Archi-
bald alias Archibald Alexander, alias Alexander Watson, James Dickson, and James
McMillan, charged with Housebreaking, Theft, and Reset of Theft, in so far as they
did on the 4th or 5th day of October last, wickedly and feloniously break into, and enter
the shop No 17 and 18 of the Candleriggs Street, Glasgow, then occupied as sale rooms,
known by the name of "the City Auction Mart," by climbing up the roof of a back
building and forcibly entering through the roof by a sky-light; and did then and there
wickedly and feloniously steal and carry off 30 watches, 20 of which were silver and the
rest gilt or yellow metal watches,    50 gold seals or thereby; 60  gold or gilt keys, 24
pair of silver, metal, and tortoise shell mounted spectacles; 200 silver pencil cases, and a
vast quantity of other jewellery articles, and amounting in value to 230 l. or thereby:
And farther, that they did also steal and carry off two men's black hats; or other wise,
that they did at Glasgow, or vicinity thereof, wickedly and feloniously rest and  receive
the said gold and silver articles, and other goods, knowing the same to have been stolen
And that the said  Alexander Robertson, James Dickson, and James McMillan having been
conscious of their guilt in the premises, and knowing that the police of  the city of Glasgow
Were making Strict search after them, did abscond and flee from justice within two days
after the said theft was  committed, carrying with them a great number of the stolen
articles,and were apprehended in Edinburgh, on Thursday the 8th day or October last,
when they had in  their possession a bundle containing a number of the stolen articles.-
And also, that the said Alexander Archibald, alias Alexander, alias Watson, did also 
abscond and flee from justice, but was some time afterwards apprehended, when he had
in his possession a part of the stolen property, and had upon his head one of the hats
stolen from the said auction mart.

Moss Lee   (This Gentleman being a Jew, requested to be sworn with his hat on, but
stated he had no objection to take the oath according to the forms of Court. Witness,
then proved the robbery of the auction mart, in the Candleriggs of Glasgow, of which
he had the ground flat. The robbery was perpetrated betwixt Saturday night and Mon- 
day morning. Witness found  four drawers had been forcibly opened; the thieves appear -
ed to have entered  by  a skylight on a building at the back of the premises The prime
cost of the articales taken was from 230 l  to 250 l.Witness here stated the  number of the
articles stolen, consisting of watches, seals, rings, gold watch keys, snuff-box,  &c; and
identified a number of articles shown him to be his property, and stolen from his premises
and missed watches of the same maker's name, and same description as those now on the
table of the Court. Witness had not been in the shop from the Wednesday to the Mon-
day; his partner Mr. Myers, had the charge of It.

Ch. Maclauchlan, clerk to Mr. Love at the auction mart, locked the premises on the
Saturday night about eleven o'clock. On Monday morning he found the glass cases all
smashed, the drawers forced out, and blood upon the glass of the show-drawers. Two
hats were missing. Wittness immediately locked the door, and went and informed
Massrs Love, Lee, and Myers. Witness identifies two hats shown to him as bear-
ing Mr. Love's private mark. Witness put it on himself, but cannot say whather they
were in the shop on the Saturday night, but he can swear that two hats were taken away
of a simillar description.

John Davidson was apprehended on the streets of Edinburgh along with the prisoners,
Robertson Dickson,  and McMillan.     They came to Edinburgh the night before which
was  Wednesday, by the Steam Boat from Grangemouth to Leith.     They had stopt a
night  in Kirkintilloch, and  one  James Sharp was  in company.    They had come  from
Glasgow on Tuesday.  Witness had fallen in with the  prisoners in a public-house in
Duke-Street .    A message came to his father's house by a boy,  to come to that public-
house, where he saw the prisoners,   who gave him  some rum,  and asked   him to go to
Edinburgh     Witness said he had no money; but one of them said he need not mind that
  as they had some gold and silver watches in a bundle lying on the table.    Witness asked
   where they had got them, and McMillan said they had got them at a " crack," the mean-
ing of which is a shop-breaking.    They did not mention where, and the witness having
got rather the worse of liquor agreed to go with them. Witness asked what they were
going to do at Edinburgh, they said in their cant language, to dispose of  the goods. Wit-
ness saw the bundle opened on Thursday morning in a house in Cowgate, Edinburgh;
saw some yellow watches, seals, and other articles. It was McMillan who opened the
bundle. Robertson and Dickson went out with a watch for the purpose of pawning it,
but they returned with it again. The bundle was then tied up in two handkerchiefs, and
Robartson desired the witness to go and pawn a watch for a few pounds but when they
get to the head of Bank Street, and were all standing together the Police Officers sur-
rounded them and took them prisoners. The watch Robertson gave the witness, was
found upon him, and a silver pencil case. Witness had heard from his father on the
Monday night before he was sent for by the prisoners, that he auction man was broke
into and jewllery stolen. Witness desired Sharp to tell his mother  he was going to
 Edunburgh a  few days, but he never said the Police were looking after him. The res-
son the prisoners sent for him was, as they said he knew Edinburgh and they did not.
When they were in the track boat coming from Kirkintilloch, Robertson said he had
got his hand itched and he would need to buy some ointment. Witness looked at his
hand and it was scratched in several places. Witness thought that it was the itch, and
had not the appearance of cuts. Witness did not see the prisoner Archibald upon any
one of these days. The other three, with witness and a woman, were together en the
Tuesday night in  house in Great Hamilton Street:

The Jury then retired; but in ahout twenty minutes they sent the Macer into Court
With a verbal message saying, that as they had not made up their minds as to  the verdict
to be returned, they would do so to-morrow at one o'clock.

On Tuesday the Court met at one o'clock, when the jury returned their verdict, find-
ing Robertson Guilty of Shopbreeking, and the other there of Reset of Theft, when
 Robertson was  sentenced  to be Executed at Glasgow,on the 7th of April, and Alexander
 Archibald, James Dickson and James McMillan to be banished for fourteen years,

Printed for John MuirShocking

DEPRAVITY!

A Full and authentic account of the most Shocking
Case of Depravity on record in the annals of the
history of this Kingdom, which took place in the vi-
cinity of Airdrie, on Sabbath morning, the 2d June
instant, by six Monsters in the shape of human
beings !

The following account of this most deplorable case is copied from
the Glasgow Free Press Newspaper, which exceeds any thing of the
kind that we remember ever to have read or heard of. That six
persons, who consider themselves men, should be found in our
boasted civilized and enlightened country, in our day, to lend their
united assistance for such a diabolical purpose as is here described,
is beyond all credibility, and makes our very blood run cold !

On the evening of Saturday last, a labourer and his wife, residing
at or near Kipps, on the line of the Glasgow and Kirkintilloch rail
road, had occasion to be in Airdrie, making some purchases for the
family, and being late in getting payment of their wages, and con-
sequently, later than usual in getting their marketing finished, were
proceeding in a homeward direction about eleven or twelve o'clock
at night, when by some preconcerted scheme, two villains, under the
pretence of being constables, seized the husband and dragged him
towards the jail.    The  poor woman,  meanwhile, alarmed for her
children, and assured that her husband would speedily follow, ven-
tured to return alone, when four accomplices in the diabolical plot
came forward, and pretending to commiserate her hapless situa-
tion, proposed escorting her homewards in safety, by a nearer path
than the ordinary road.    Seeing so many apparent friends around
her, and being anxious to reach home as quickly as possible, she,
unconscious of danger, consented to be guided by them.    The road
chosen by these monsters, lay through an extensive park, and led to
the corner or wing of a plantation ;   thither they bent their way,
and    *    *    It would harrow the feelings of the most hardened, and
shock the ears of the most indelicate, to narrate the details of the un-
fortunate woman's struggle, and the beastly treatment she experien-
ced at the hands of these unmanly ruffians ;  suffice it to say, that
that the party employed to capture the husband, left him so soon as
they considered their accomplices had got his wife fairly out of the
way.—The injured husband, on regaining his liberty, hurried home,
and found, indeed his children, but his wife was nowhere to be seen.
A glimmering of suspicion flashed across his mind.    Having pro-
cured the assistance of a neighbour, the husband rushed out, mad-
dened with rage, and not knowing whither he went—inquiry seem-
ed useless.     By the merest accident, however, he discovered his
abused partner at the corner of the aforesaid plantation as the clock
struck three on the Sabbath morning—her clothes torn to tatters—
her limbs lacerated—her little stock of provisions and clothes Car-
ried off, and her body nearly inanimate.    Thus has been perpetrated
in the vicinity of Airdrie another of the most monstrous and diabo-
lical deeds on record; and with shame let it be said by persons re-
siding in, or belonging to the town, and persons too who are notori-
ously known ; though they have for the present fled.    The case of
the Gilmerton Carters bears no parallel to the foregoing in point of
deliberate atrocity.    The injured  woman is respectably connected,
and we are happy to add is gradually recovering.    The Procurator
fiscal has been apprised of the case, so that in the course of a few
days, we may expect to hear of the apprehension of the offenders,-—
Glasgow Free Press.

Menzies, Printer, Lawnmarket, Edinburgh.A Full and Particular Account of the
Trial and Sentence of Allan Grant,
James Kenny Stewart, Mary Muirhead,
and Isabella Kerr or Gray, who were
tried at Edinr. before the High Court
of Justiciary, for the Crimes of Murder,
Robbery, and Theft, on Monday the
5th day of March 1827, and who are
all to be transported, Grant for Life,
Kenny Stewart and Mary Muirhead
for Fourteen, and Kerr or Gray for
Seven years.

AT Edinburgh, on Monday the 5th March 1827,
came on before the High Court of Justiciary,
the trial of Allan Grant,sometime a travelling pack-
man, James Kenny Stewart, Pensioner from 94th
Regiment of foot, Mary Muirhead, and Isabella Kerr
or Gray widow of Wm. Gray, Writer in Edinburgh,
accused of Murder, Robbery, and Theft; in so far
as they, on the evening of the 10th January last,
within the house occupied by the said James Kenny
Stewert, in North Bank Street of Edinburgh, wick-
edly and feloniously stole and theftuously carry 
away, from the now deceased Mark Dow, late Shoe-
maker in Edinburgh, a bill, notes and silver to the
amount of upwards of £80 sterling, and other
articles ; also, in or near the same place, they viol-
ently, wickedly, and feloniously attacked and ass-
aulted the said Mark Dow, by violently throwing
and dashing him on the stair, or on the flagstones
in the passage, by which his neck was dislocated,
and he shortly thereafter died in consequence; and
further, they wickedly and feloniously attacked and
assaulted the said Mark Dow, and seized and threw
him with great violence upon the pavement of the
said passage, or on the stair leading therefrom up
to Bank Street, and, while lying upon the pave-
meat or stair and disabled from making any resist-
ance, they seized and robbed him of a black cloth
coat, a pair of leather shoes, a black cloth vest, a
black hat, a white neckcloth, and a pair of braces,
all his property. To all which they pled Not
Guilty.

Several witnesses were then examined, one of
whom knew Grant for 8 years as a common thief.
Another police officer stated, when he was brought
to the office, a one pound note was found in the
sleeve of his coat, with six shillings and threepence,
and a silver pencil case in his pocket.

It was intimated, after a number of witnesses
were examined, and the prisoners declarations was
then read, that Grant was desirous to alter his plea,
his counsel having advised him to plead guilty to
the theft, (except as to the bill) as libelled, which
was done accordingly. The Lord Advocate had
now brought forward, he said, every individual
who could throw any light on this dark transaction,
but the evidence had failed to establish the murder.

His Lordship then restricted the libel, and the
jury after a few observations from the Lord Justice
Clerk, returned a unanamous verdict, finding the
murder and robbery not proven—Gray guilty in
terras of her own confession—Muirhead, Stewart,
and Grant guilty, in terms of their own confession,
and upon the evidence adduced.

Lord Meadow bank then proposed that Crant
should be transported for life—Stewart and Muir-
head for fourteen years, and Gray for seven years,
and they were sentenced accordingly.

Grant was known as a hawker through the city,
and is of a singular formation of body ; having at
one time had his back broken by a bank of earth
falling on him. Kenny Steware is a respectable
looking young man, who had lost his left hand
when a soldier. The two females have been long
known to the police as public pests.