DREADFUL DUEL!

 Full, True, and  Particular Account of the Dis-
turbances in Ireland, with an account of the
Horrid Murders committed there__also an ac-
count of the Duel which was fought last week
between the D—e of  W---------n and L—d
A------p.

DREADFUL DUEL.
DEATH of the DUKE of W-----N.

On Friday morning last L—d A------p received
a billet by the hands of a high Military Officer.
On reading, his Lordship immediately sent for one
of his colleagues, when an arrangement was im-
mediately made with the Military officer above
mentioned. The parties met, by agreement, at
half-pa t three on the same day, and after the
usual preliminaries of adjusting the ground, the
parties fired, when the noble Duke received his
adversary's ball in the groin. He was assisted to
his carriage. which was in attendance, by two me-
dical gentlemen. The parties fired at six paces
distant.

We regret to state that dispatches of an unplea-
sant nature have reached Government from Ire-
land. A mob of several thousand persons, assem-
bled in the county of Meath, headed by a person
of note. The Magistrates found it necessary to
read the Riot Act, when the mob were addressed
by their leader, and afterwards dispersed.

The following letter will shew what an awful
aspect the present state of Ireland wears:

"Dublin, Tuesday.—Information has just
reached us that Navan is in a state of Rebellion.
Several lives were lost last night, and just now
troops are on their way in double quick time. A
company of the 9th and 92d Highlanders, with a
squadron of the 12th Lancers have just gone past
in full trot. More infantry are passing, and I learn
from the men that they carry loaded fire-arms.
Good God! What a state the country is in!
Troops go this morning for Kilkenny. The sol-
diers have 30 miles before them.'

ATROCIOUS MURDERS IN IRELAND.

A man named Lynch, a policeman, had been
found in a brothel in Goat-Alley, when he should
have been on duty, in consequence of which he
lost his situation. Ever since, he had been low-
spirited, and on Friday morning last, in the ab-
sence of his wife, he cut the heads off his two
daughters. One of them was 9 months, and the
other 4 years old. He afterwards cut his own
throat.___Freeman's Journal. 

John Campbell, Printer, Edinburgh.

The late Duel. 

Trial of Mr STUART of Dunearn, for the late Duel, in which Sir
ALEXANDER BOS WELL, of Auchinleck, lost his life, which
came on at Edinburgh on Monday last, the 10th June, 1822.,
with an account of its final result.

High Court of Justiciary, 10th June, 1822.—This day, at ten o'clock, Mr Stuart enter
ed the Court by way of the Judges' Robing Room, it being impossible for him to gain ad-
mittance any other way, owing to the passages being completely chocked up. He was ac-
companied by the Earl of Moray, Admiral Fleming, Captain Gordon, and David Erskine,
Esq. and son, of Cardross. Several of Mr Stuart's particular friends, who were advocates.
had previously taken their seats; among these was Mr Ferguson of Baith,—A number of
nobility were accommodated with seats on the bench, among whom was Prince Czarto-
rinski. The Solicitor-General entered the Court a little after ten, and a little time after,
the Lord Advocate entered. The other Crown Counsel were, R. Dundas, Esq. D. M'Neill,
Esq. — Menzies, Esq.

Their Lordships took their seats precisely at half-past ten.    Present, the Lord Justice
Clerk. Lord Hermand, Lord Gillies, Lord Pitmilly, and Lord Succoth. The Clerk having
read the indictment, the  Lord Justice Clerk  demanded of the accused his plea to the
charge contained therein.    Mr Stuart, in an audible voice, " My Lord, I am not guilty."

After a long speech by Mr Cockburn with regard to the relevancy of the indictment, in
which several clauses were not dwelt upon, the following individuals  were appointed to   
constitute a jury:—                                                                                             

Thomas Adinston of Carcant; William Pagan of Linburn ; John Wauchope of Edmon-
stone ; Sir Alexander Charles Maitland Gibson of Cliftonhall,  Bart. ; Sir John Hope of   
Craighall, Bart ; James Watson of Saughton ; James Haig of Lochrin ; John Thomson
of Burnhouse; Iohn Anderson of Whitburgh ; Sir James Dalyell Bart, of Binns ; James    
Dundas of Dundas ;  David Brown, clothler in Edinburgh ;  Robert Paterson, ironmonger
there; Thomas M'Ritchie, wine merchant, Leith ;   William Telfer, merchant there.

After the examination of witnesses, the jury consulted for a few minutes in the box,
when Sir John Hope, their Chancellor, delivered a unanimous verdict of—NOT GUILTY.

The verdict was received with loud cheers from without the doors, and with marked
approbation from within.

The trial lasted eighteen hours, and was not finished till near five next morning. The
Court continued crowded during the whole time.

When Mr Cockburn alluded in his speech to the fatal end of Sir A. Boswell, Mr Stuart
burst into tears.

Counsel for the accused, Francis Jeffrey, H. Cockburn, J. Moncrieff and T. Maitland,   
Esqrs.

It is impossible to conceive the interest which this, trial excited throughout the city.
The doors were crowded as early as seven in the morning, and before they were opened the
Parliament Square was almost filled with people.   Great tumult was occasioned by the re-
sistance given to the police in their attempt to clear the doors, so much so that they were 
often induced to use considerable violence.    The scene, in short, was almost unparalelled
in the whole history of the trials which have taken place.

                          				W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.