GRAY's ELLEGIE
WITH HIS
Own Conceity ANSWER.

And has ald Death e'n come at last      
and if his Craft ge'n Gray a cast    
Without Respect  to Aull or last                 
For ought I hear,    
Tho he were Dead ther's no much lost        
Nay find a Tear.     

His Parents I did ken sow' well,                 
indeed was better nor him-sell,                    
But for a Truth I cannot tell                          
How auld was he,      
E'n ask his Meed-wife Jannie Beell,              
She winny Lie.     

With Willie Mathew he was bred,              
a purpose for to learn a Trade,                  
But a the Wives in the Moor side,                  
Had little Peace,     
But now into his Grave he's laid                       
That crost their Face.

O But he was a cruel Knave,                       
skull  Davie's Dog and a the leave               
They were not sure an Hour to live,             
nor half O that,     
He Chaste, he Stond, he sought no leave         
To beat their Back    

He left Monross his Native Land,               
and Betty too I understand,                        
With ne'r a Penny in her Hand                     
Nor Credit had,    
Ther's no great Miss tho' Death command    
This roving Blade.    

This Gray he had a virtuous Wife,            
Was carefull of him all his Life,           
Poor Woman she had mikle Grief        
ay while he Liv'd,
But now of Sorrow, Start and Strife              
She's e'n relive'd    

A Right good Shoe he cou'd a made,         
But very careless O' his Trade,             
O mikle ado poor Bettie had                     
To make him Wirk,     
This lazie Loun in Grave is laid                  
There let him Lurk,    

When he woud to the Ale-house tour         
there he would clash and drink an Hour,    
He nee'r forgot you may be sure                
The News to read,     
Nor did he let the Ale grow Sower,          
That's true indeed,     

Forsooth he was a gelly Gose,                  
the Tippony about did toss,  
And with good Fellows took his Doss           
of Ale you ken.     
But now the Ale-Wives at a loss                      
Fin care O' them,     

For Honnest Betty mony a Day,    
has wish't that a their Bungs were dry,     
But wou'd you ken the Reason why,               
He stay'd our Lang     
And this did Cross Poor Betty ay.                    
when she  was Thrang           

What Raskal's this dar be so bold,       
me for to Hector so and Scold
That thinks my faillings to unfold            
Which doth me grieve 
For I am neither Dead nor Old,
But we your Leave,

Is Louden Folks sick Fools think ye,          
will they go Thirty Miles and three,
To ask the Dead how old I be,
That's Jennie Beell;
That she can neither Speak nor Lie,
They ken sow well.

It's true I unto Mathew went,
to learn a Trade was my Intent,
But Wives more cross then Dogs in Lent
it's there did dwell,
To make them gree much Time I spent
Themselves can tell.

How coul'd I be a cruel Knave,
to Davie's Dog and a the lave
They eat our Hides which did us grive
or they were Tan'd
To Thieves I'm sure if Justice give,
They should be Hang'd

I pray you Sir how do you ken,
What Money in her Purse was then
Be carefull ay folks Name to stain
Out fy for Shame,
Let Charity with you remain            
Look ay at Hame,

It's true l have a Virtuous Wife
loves me as she do's her Life,
Sure you would give her no Relief
Gin I were Dead,
No Fardle nor a Penny Loafe,
Nay Fiend a Head

It is well kend into this Town,
that I can make a pair of Shoon,
Altho you say I make but an,           
And does discrave,
Me as Give I were dead and gone,                 
whose yet alive

I do not think it with my Pen,
to answer Nonsense Line by Line,              
Nor do I yet the Reason ken,                         
What ailse the lown
It's Time when I am Dead and gone
for to begin,

My Elegie it for to make,
such balder dash to undertake
Indeed I'm sorry for your sake
You silly Fool,
It shows your Judgment is but wake
to redicoll

Me with Sower Ale, or this and that,
dry Bungs long Staying, I ken not what, 
It's a but Nonsence well I wat
You should be whang'd,
I do not wallow you a Plack
E'n go be hang'd.GRAY'S   ELLEGIE

WITH   HIS

Own Conceity ANSWER.

1  AND has ald  Death e'n come at last
        and of his Craft ge'n Gray a cast,
Without Respect  to Aull or last

For ought I hear,
Tho' he were Dead ther's no mnch lost

Nay find a. Tear.
2 His  Parents I did ken fow' well,

indeed was better nor him-sell,
But for a Truth I Cannot tell

How  auld  was he,
E'n ask his Meed-wife Jannie Beell,

She winny Lie.

3 With Willie Mathew he was bred,
a. purpose for to learn a Trade,
But a the Wives in the Moor side,

                                     Had little Peace,

But now into his Grave he's laid

That  crost their  Face.
4 O But  he was a cruel Knave,
    skull Davic's Dog and  the a leave
They were not sure an Hour to live,

nor half O that,
He Chaste, he Stond, he sought no leave

To beat their Back.
5. He left Montross  his Native Land,

and  Betty too I understand,
With ne'r a Penny in her Hand

Nor Credit bad,

Ther's no great Miss  tho' Death command
This roving Blade.

6  This Gray he had a virtuous  Wife,
was carefull of him all his Life,
Poor Woman she had mikle Grief

ay while he Liv'd,
But now of Sorrow, Sturt and Strife

She's e'n reliev'd
7 A Right good Shoe he cou'd a made,

But very careless O' his Trade,
O mikle ado poor Bettie had

To make him Wirk,
This lasie Loun in Grave is laid

There let him Lurk,
8 When he woud to the Ale-house tour

there he would clash and drink an Hour,
He nee'r forgot you may be sure

The News to read,
Nor did he let the Ale grow Sower,

That's true indeed.

9 Forsooth he was a gelly Gose,
the Tippony about did toss,

And with good Fellows took his Doss

of Ale you ken.
But now the Ale-Wives at a loss

Fin care o' them.

10 For Honnest Betty mony a Day,

has wish't that a their Bungs were  dry,
But wou'd you ken the Reason why,

He stay'd our Lang
And this did Cross Poor Betty ay.

when she was Thrang

 W HAT Raskal's  this dar be so  bold,

       me for to Hector so and Scold

 That thinks my faillings to unfold

                             Which doth me grieve

For I am neither Dead nor Old,

                      But we your Leave.

2 Is Louden Folks sick Fools think ye,

     will they go Thirty Miles and three,

 To ask the Dead   how   old  I be,

                         That's Jannie Beell;

 That she can neither Speak nor Lie,

                                They ken fow Well.

 3 It's true I unto Mathow went,

     to learn a Trade was my Intent,

 But Wives more cross then Dogs in Lent

                                   it's there did dwell,

To make them gree much Time I spent

                                Themselves can tell.

 4 How cou'd I be a cruel Knave,

     to Davie's Dog and a  the lave

 They eat our Hides which did us grive

                            or they were Tan'd

 To Thieves I'm sure if Justice give,

They should be Hang'd
5 I pray you Sir how do you ken,
      what Money in her Purse was then
 Be carefull ay folks Name to stain

Out fy for Shame,
 Let Charity with you remain

look ay at Hame,

6 It's true I have a Virtuous wife
loves me as she do's her Life,

Sure you would give her no Relief

Gin I were Dead,
No Fardle nor a Penny Loafe,

Nay Fiend a Head.

7 It is well kend into this Town,
that I can make a pair of Shoon,

Altho you say I make but an,

And does discrave,
Me as Give I were dead and gone,

whose yet alive

8 I do not think it with my Pen,

to answer Nonsense Line by Line,
Nor do I yet the Roason ken,

What ailse the lown
It's Time when I am Dead and gone

for to begin ;

9 My Elegie it for to make,
such balder dash to undertake

Indeed I'm sorry for your sake

You silly Fool,
It shows your Judgment is but wake

To redicoll

10  Me with Sower Ale, or this and that,
dry Bungs  long Staying, I ken not what,

It's a but Nonsence well I wat

You should be whang'd,
I do not wallow you a Plack.

E'n go be hang'd.The Gillmertoun Vulcan gone,

who  hew'd seven Fire-Rooms in a single stone:

O R,

An E L E G Y on George Paterson Smith, Good-Man
of the famous Gillmertoun Caves.

INgenious George, at last alace thou'rt gone,
    To lodge in Clay and left thy hollow Stone:
    Ah me! Could not thy sturdy Wills of Rock,

Resist Deaths Darts and disappoint the Stroak;
Or coud'lt thou not thy Dest'ny to prevent,
Have cudgel'd Death by Dint of Argument:
for what could Death further of thee require;
Long since subjected to his dark Empire; 
And sure in  might be very well aver'd,
One's fairly dead that's seven Years inter'd.
Well Sirs, what shall we say of honest George,
His learning Parts, his curious Cave and Forge,
For's Mem'rys Cause kind Reader it you please,
Let's have a little Hint at each of these.
George was no Man of many Letters, yet
He had a mighty Stock of Mother-Wit,
And tho' not taught in Geometrie at Schools,
Nor well acquaint with Euclid's learned Rules;
Yet here we are oblig'd t'observe his Knowledge,
An meas'ring Superficials and Sollids,
He con'd without Line, Compis, Rule or Pen,
Take the Dimsnsions of a Rock in's Brain,
Catrive what Rooms Square oblong, and so on
He con'd  cut out within a single Stone,
Which his prodigious Work will plainly tell,
To Travellers crouding to see his Cell.
E're Passengers approach'd his hollow Rock,
They from a far beheld th' ascending Smoak,
Thar surionsly did from his Forge arise,
Ano Æma like, clouded the neighbouring Skies.
Such Smoak from th' one cy'd Cyclop's Cave arose,
When forgoing Thunder with alternate Blows,
By Stairs hewn in firm Rock th' Enteire descends,
Which to the subteraneous Labyrinth tends:
Here the amaz'd   Beholder's at a Stand,
Entries present themselves on every Hand,
To Kitchen, Dining, Drawing rooms apart,
Cut in the Rock with most ingenious Art,
And as with Wonder forward we advance,
In the meand'rings of a volted Trance ;
Apartment do appear on every Side,
Nicely contriv'd, which Craigie Walls divide:
To crown the Comforts of this curious Cell,
Deep in the Rock  here springs a pleasant Well,
By George's Hands, hewn with prodigious Pains,

Who's Water is refin'd in Rockie Veins.
No Furniture this dusky Cavern fills,
Or Timber fell'd on Cold Norvegian Hills ;
Nor doth its Roof rest upon Beams of Oak,
but sturdy Pillars of substantial Rock.
Here Roof, Walls, Floor and Furniture are one,
  All nicely cut in ne'er decaying Stone,
Which doubtless here have untransported stood,
Since Father Adam's Day e're Noah's Flood :
Unshaken too they stoutly seem to stand,
Scorning Times, all devouring Teeth or Hand,
And yet it's evident there's not  one small
Stone standing 'bove another in its Wall.     
Thus how he form'd his House is hard to say,
By bearing down and throwing Stones away,
Beds Tables, Chairs, are Moveables you know,
George's House you'd hardly find it so.
You cannot here be Quarrels e'er so great,

Nor can ye tho' design'd his Heels to Trip;
Kick off the Chair to give his Bum the Slip ;
Nor can his Dame (Xantipe like) at Dinner,
O'erturn the Table with his Belly Timber,
Thus here you hardly can insirnge the Pace,
Unless against a Rock you run your Face.
To Poind his Goods he Meslengers might Mock',
They'd necd Concurrence to transport a Rock;
'Tis perfect Proof 'gainst Roberie and Thift,
There's little here that humane Hands can lift,
And Men you know may to a Thief afford,
The Charge of Millstones if they are unbor'd.
Deservedly it may be deem'd a Place,
Of Safety too in War as well as Peace;
'Gainst it what can the fiercest Foe perform,
'Tis Proof 'gainst bombing Battery or Storm:
So situate it cou'd sustain no Hurt,
From all th' Artillery in maiden Fort;
Castles on Rocks securely stand 'tis thought,
Securer this which in firm Rock is wrought,
Upon its sturdy Root in vain doth beat,
The Winter Tempest or the Summer Heat.
From blust'ring North Winds free and falling Rain,
Insurrance Tickets too wou'd be in vain:
Nature and Art together here conspite,
To mock the Floods and disappoint the Fire,
Thus dwelt the ancient Warlick Pios of Old,
Rocks were their Refuge, Rocks their strongest Hold
His Muse great Hautbornden did ost invock,
And breath'd his machless Lays from such a Rock;
And th' Oracles, which to the Ancients spoke,
Gave their Responces from some reverend Rock.    
Papists to prove their Errors Orthodox,               

Build Churches over Caves cut in firm Rocks,     
And thus with pious Tricks Priestriden Folls      
they Cox.                                                  

George to his Neighbour show'd his generous Love,
Liv'd under Ground t afford them Room above,
Thus he by far bewray'd a nobler Spirit,
Than Men who mighty Tracks of Land inherite,
Which they inclose make hudge Depopulation,
And wish they could monopolize the Nation,         
judging it would much more augument their Stock
To banish Man and multiply their Flocks,
The Use of Arms they then would teach their Cat
To save their Bacon in the Day of Battle.
All Day his Hammers made the Grotto groan,
And nightly when the toilsome Day was gone,
He Vulcan like, lay on a Couch of S one;
Stone too instead of Courtains do inviron,
Stone is its Stead as Anaks was of Iron.            .   .

From off his House he are the Thatch for Food,
And blest his Stars and call'd the Product good
Like old Diegenes in his Tub Castle,
He sat and crack't as crouseas will of Wastle,
Repeating with a graceful Air each Motto,        
By Bards composed on his carious Grotto.        
But ah! at last grim Death espy'd poor George,     
Pent in his secret subteraneous Forge,
And laid him lifeless with a fatal Drub,
As Hercules did Cacus with his Club.

F   I   N   I   S.                    AN

E  L   E   G   I   E,

Upon the much to be lamented Death of Colonel S A R A, who de-

parted this Life, at Leith, the 28th. of August 1718.

HAT mournful Sound is this doth reach mine Ears,
Leith, as me thinks drown'd in a Sea of Tears ?
Awake my Muse from Sleep, secure arite,
Search out the Cause of this to strange Surprise
And after real Search I fear you'l find,
That Colonel Sarah  hath this Life resign'd 
The ruful Cries of Female-Sex doth seem,
The Tale's too true, no Falsisie nor Dream,
O're true indeed, I hear the Bell-man toll,

inviting to her Burial, whil'st her Soul

Is from her earthly Tabernacle fled,

Whil'st Friends lamenting, cry, Alas, she's dead.                              

She's dead, o're true, who was a real Friend,

To the Poor Distrest, she oft hath Succour lend,

Pled   for the Prisoners, and hath set them free,

Still doing Good, abhoring Injurie;

True to her Country, and of Courage Bold,

Hating  the cursed  Bribery of Gold,

Back'd with her White-head Regiment without Fear,

Mongst Parliaments she boldly could appear,

Tell them her Mind, and what she thought was best,

For Scotland's Good, so ruin'd and distrest,

Abhorring secret Thist ;  at her Command,

Ready to sail, Ships have been made to stand,

Where in the Staff of Life, the best of Meal,

Which they abroad resolved  were to steal ;

For Greed of Gain,   whilst our own poor might sterve,

She justly serv'd them, as they did deserve,

Stood judge her self, and Caus'd the same be sold,

To Leith's own  Folk, for Succour, not for Gold.

Likewise our Wool from underneath their Deck,

She brought a Shoar, and did the same protect,

Whilst they, poor Rogues, look'd as their Nose had bled,

And from her Presence, took their Heels and fled.

Her Schepter was a Rock into her Hand,

With Silver Bars, wherewith she did command.

Her Loyal White head Regiment, who were ready,

At each Malverse, for to attend their Lady: 

But ah alas !   me thinks I see them weeping,

Whilst she in Death's cold Arms, hes asleeping 

Unto the Poor, an Hundred Merks she leaves,

Likewise to Friends, who for her Loss sore grieves 

Me thinks, I see the White-heads at her Spoaks,                                   

With hung down Heads their wary Footsteps takes,

With Hearts of Grief they carry her to Grave,

Who was their Captain and their Colonel brave.    

EPITAPH,                   

HERE lyes a Female of the Common Sort,
Who of  her Sex deserves a good Report,                       

Tho' in the Grave her Body now  doth ly,             

Her Name upon the Wings of Fame shall fly,                

No Loyal Margaret can with  her compare,                  

Nor Glasgow's White-head Captain thought so Rare.
Her Name shall last while Leith remains a Town,
And Edinburgh will talk of her Renown,                                               

To fill her Place, I scarcely know a Wife                     

So sp'rity active, and so full of   Life.                                                      AN

E  L   E   G   Y

On the Reverend   Doctor  JOHN GlLLIES,  one of the Ministers
of Glasgow, who died in the 84 th year  of his  Age, and the
54th year-of his Ministry.                

 The Reverend Doctor JOHN GILLIES was beyond all doubt an eminently pious man
beside which, he was a man of profound Erudition.' He was a most excellent Classical
Scholar, and uncommonly well skilled in the Oriental Languages, which circumstance ren-
dered him fully able to consult the Sacred Writings in their original purity unhurt by tranf-
lation, He composed many useful works ; among others he published '' an Hebrew Manual
for the use of Students of that Language.------" Historical Collections respesting the state
and progress of religion in various places and at different periods, in two volumes octavo.
"'Devotional Exercises on various passages of Scripture, In two volumes octavo.'-—A
complete version of the Psalms of David, adapted for families, in one volume, with. notes,
chiefly selected from Doctor Horne's excellent Commentary on the Psalms "—-—" Paradise
Lost, with notes from Scripture, in One volume, shewing that the principal beauties in that
inimitable Poem are borrowed from the Scripture, and quoting the verses of Scripture below
the text of the Poem, &c.''------That his labours in the Pulpit might be more. extensively use-
ful, He published weekly for a considerable time, a brief abstract or abridgement of  his Lec-
tures, in the size of a small pamphlet, and, to extend the sale, at the low price of one half-
penny per number, under the title of Exhortations to his Parishioners.   In  short,   Doctor,
Gillies was a man actuated by the strongest desire of Doing Good and promoting human happi
ness,—nor were his benevolent intentions warped by any narrow prejudices' of Partial Part
Spirit, (A SPIRIT FOREIGN TO THAT OF CHRIST.) His memory will long be he
in estimation as he was a venerable pattern of every Good Word and Work,    He died in perfe
peace at his house in Dunlop Street Glasgow, on Tuesday the 29th day of March 1796, in.
84th year of his age and 54th year of his Ministry.    He was ordained Minister of the Co
Kirk of Glasgow on the 29th day of July 1742.                                                           

THE Saint is gone--to all who knew him dear,
Who spent in usefulness his Period here,
From active virtue never did he cease,
But his whole Life was Piety and Peace:
In frame devout and constant pious mood,
He went about, for ever Doing Good.

In Church he Preach'd with unaffected grace,
His modest looks adorn'd the sacred place,
He taught no Doctrines New to fish for fame,
His good  old fashion'd truths were still the same,
Christ and him Crucified his constant theme.

while others frame Discourses stiff with art,
His honest aim was to amend the Heart,
More anxious for to prove a Sound Divine
Than with vain modern show of words to shine.

Resolv'd was he to use his Talents given,
To guide the wand'ring sinner towards Heaven,
And like a worthy Saint was ever glad,
To sooth the sorrows of the sick-man's bed,
with his most fervent prayers he joy'd to pour
The Balm of Comfort at the dying hour.

No partial narrow views debas'd his mind,
But to all Sects and Parties he was kind,
Like his great Lord who came from Heaven above,
whose first and chief commandment is to Love.                   

    He preach'd repentance and reprov'd delay,
 Allur'd to brighter worlds and led the way
To the blest regions  of Eternal Day
 Then sure it will be deem'd presumption none
  To say, this venerable Saint is gone
    To sing HOSANNAHS round his Master s Throne !!!    AN

ELEGY

On the much to be Lamented Death,
OF

Francis Masterton
Apothecary.

COME thou my mournful Muse to his great Name.

Doubly inscribe that thence the purer Flame.

To Heaven so offered may more greatful rise,

The grosser parts be wood for the Sacrifice.

Doubles the grief that's in the Nation spread.

Since he whom Edinburgh did Love is Dead

For every Tear that with our Eye's most shed,

Even on a Languishing a Sickly Bed,

They will into a Stream amongst us turn,

And every on will have just cause to mourn,

For who can cease to shed a thousand Tears,

Whilest he is dead and Edinburgh's  loss appears,

Tho' in the grave or in the mounted Sky,

What ever Mansions doth his Dust Survie,

Still on our Hearts he shall for ever live,

We indispos'd he did always relive.

When bussie Cares did oft oppress our Mind.

He was the only Comfort we did find,

In his good Medicines we found Repose,

For they with pleasant sweets did us Dispose,

But now he's gone Death's rapt him from our Sight

And cruely Rob'd us of our only Right,

He though no Surgeon yet did understand,

His Bussiness in what he took in Hand,

How Nimbly he his Patients did Survey,

Twice, Thrice and sometimes oftener in a Day.

To every one that call'd him he with Speed

Did run, to the Poor a helper in their need,

Who can unconquer'd Death withstand ?

A furrowed brow old Age at Hand.

For Death a little after this we all must feel.

It's so Decreed by the Fatal wheel,

And all the numerous Ofspring of the Earth,

That always feed on her who gave them Birth,

Must every one it's birth it's Funeral, 

The Womb and Tome being alike to all,

To Dust they must return their Breath resign,

Thus being Heavens highest great Design.AN

ELEGY

On the much to be Lamented Death,
0   F

Mr. John Merry Surgeon
Apothecary.

IS MERRY Dead, his Active Spirit flown ?
And none to lend a Tear, a Sigh, a Groan ?
For Edinburgh's  loss, me thinks at least all Eyes
Since Tongues (cannot) should weep large Elegies,
Expect no Muses for they at his Death
Conpassionate, lost their Poetick Breath,
Expect no joyful Strain, for he's past all Fate,
His Name( if Learning live )shall have no date,
Who can deny but he deserv'd great Fame ;
His Country may  rejoice to hear his Name,
That Profit yeild'd to all Nations where he went,
And in strange Lands his inclinations bent,
His Studie was to make good Surgeons known,
Rebuk'd the bad, their Studies to return,
Abroad they plac'd him in a Surgeons State
The Learned saw his Studie was so great,
The Gravest there his Learnirg did Commend,
Whereby  he brought great  things to perfect end
A wonder is how World Men Reward,
And those who save Men's Lives they least Regard,
Blind is that Age that doth the best despise
A common thing Vice lets not Vertue rise,
None can Rob Learned MERRY of his Right,
His Lamp did give such pure and glittering Light,
Pass on with Praise throw every Soil and Coast,
Where MERRY's known he shall be honoured most,
Be hush'd ye gentle winds, nor breath aloud,
The Fatal and unwelcome News Abroad,
Doubles thy blow oh Death! now from thy Dart,
Thou'swound'd the Nation, in one and everypart,
Let Honour to his Memory now be paid,
Ten thousand Tears be on his Ashes laid,
But now he's gone tho worthy of all Praise,
O that I from the Ground his Monument could raise,
Princes nor Kings can't be exempt from Death,
The greatest Monarch must resign his Breath.AN  E L E G Y
On the never to be lamented Death of
Mirs. M'Leod, who was Execute on
Wednesday the 8th of March, 1727.


O Curs'd Atropus, thou1 cancard Wife,
I wonder what aild thee to draw thy Knife,
And in such Fury, for to take the Life
		of honest Lucky,
Wha was an ne're bred Stirt nor Strife,
		You de'ils Bucky.

( 2 )
I'm very sure that you did wrong her,
In sending John Dalglish to hang her,
You might have let her leave some langer,
		Maybe she'd mended
But John out o're the Lader dang her,
		Thus she Life ended.

( 3 )
The Warld kens she was a Whore,
A Cheet, a Liar an evil Doer,
And like a Falk'ner with his Lure,
		She did intice,
Many an honest Man I'm sure,
		To be  her Prize.

(4)
Mourn for her, you that Sisters be,
Into the Trade of Venerie,
Groan, Greet and Roar until you die,
		Cause Megg is dead,
Who at our Trade bore off the Gree,
		As clean's a Beed.

( 5 )
Let Tears from a' Eyes be distil'd.
And let our Hearts with Grief be fill'd,
To think, that Megg her self has kill'd,
		wi' her aun Hands,
Because that she was so well skill'd,
		In forging Bands,

( 6 )
Let us who Cheets or plays the Knave,
Mourn for poor Megg as well's the Leave,
Or yet our Neighbour's does deceave,
		Like Cheeting Li'rs,
Follow poor Megg unto her Grave,
		In the Grayfri'rs.

( 7 )
I grant that me does go awa,
From Gallows to the Surgeons Ha'
To be defect amang them a'
		That's Surgeon Lads,
We'll follow her, all in a Raw,
		Cheets, Thieves and Bads.

( 8 )
Because, when that she was alive,
She thieflick Shifts did ay contrive,
All honest Men for to deprive,
		Of their good Name,
For which Cause John, did poor Megg drive,    
		To her lang Hame.

( 9 )
Sae proudly she went up the Town,                  
wi' Snivirings white and Satin Gown,
And John Dalglish that Hangman Lown,
      		walking behind her,
Then when the Bow they both went down,
		She bad him mind her.

( 10 )
And Swore to John upon her Life,
That she without e're Stirt or Strife,
Wad leave her Cleas unto his Wife,
		To busk on Sunday.
Because of them she is not riffe,
		wi' that a Jundy,

( 11 )
John did gi' Megg out o're the Ledder,
Till she did swing into his Tedder,
And as tender Hearted as a Father,
		And so discreet,
Or he wad hurt her Neck, he'd rather,
		Draw down her Feet.
( 12 )
Now when that she is dead and gane,
And stiff and cauld as any Stane,
I'm sure they'l none for her make Main,
		Save Brother Curry,
Who down the Bow by John, will be drawn,
		In Tow to worry.

Her E P I T A P H,

EIther into the Surgeons ha'
Or else in the Gray-Friars,
Lyes an, who John in's Tow did draw,
Queen of Whores, Cheet and Liars.
Wha in her Life bred meikle Strife,
Few can her Life comend,
For them that liveth a bad Life.
Always the same dos End. 

F I N I S, AN 

ELEGY

On the Death of the much lamented Reverend Mr. WILLIAM DUNN, late Minister of
Kirkintilloch, who died on Saturday, November 3, 1798.                

Mourn Dame RELIGION !

sable garments wear,
And o'er thy Son distill

the matron tear;

Thy sacred cheeks let
silent sorrow trace,

And pious anguish cloud
thy azure face :

Thy child is gone—the champion
of thy cause,                    

And bold asserter of
thy injur'd laws:

In him thy interest ever

found a friend,
Warm to invite, and
dauntless to defend:

Nor did with years his
fervent heat decline,
His years gave ardour
in the task divine;

As safe experience points
the false from true,
So he convicted did
his course pursue.
                           

Mourn HUMAN NATURE!
well he new thy springs,
And clipt the plumes of
thy advent'rous wings :

He knew each bias of
the human mind,
Each various genus
and each separate kind,

He knew where frailty
pronely step'd aside-
He mark'd the failing
and the fault did chide ;

Yet with the feeling
of a friend who knew
The latent cause the
guilty shade he drew

Mourn Traitor DEVTH!—
o'er him thou strove in vain
To throw by sealth thy
adamantine chain:

In vain for him the
barbed dart thou drew,
And dipt its point in
pandemonian dew;

In vain for him thou
fledg'd thy quiver round,
And from thy back the
massy bow unbound.

Long, long he saw thee
o'er the quiver hang,
And place thy arrow
on the fatal string ;

Long, long he saw thee
ev'ry art prepare,
And place malignant
ev'ry sabtile snare;

His pulpit lectures,
comments on thy pow'r
Show'd him in waiting 
for his final hour.

Mourn Herdless FLOCK !
your Shepherd now no more
Will tent your wand'rings
on this weary shore :

No more his tounge will
teach your feet the way ,
To the bright regions.
of eternal day!

He's gone to prove what
he below enjoin'd-—
He's gone to feel what
none below can find—

Prepare to follow—
still let your prayer be
With him to share
a bless'd Eternity!An ELEGY to the lasting Memory, and upon the much to be lamen-
ted Death of the pious, and well accomplished Gentleman, and much
honoured, William Nisbet of Dirletoun.                         

Obiit, 20. October 1724, Ætatis 60._________

THERE is no Truth more evident to Sense,            

Nor to infallible Experience ;
Than this; That all Living Shortly must
Be Food to Worms, dissolved into Dust:
From whence they came, the Lectures daily read,
By Thousands dying,  and Ten thousands dead.
Tho' of the Theory no Man may doubt,
The serious Practice, all our Life's left out.

But for Example, Great DIRLETOVN was so wise,

With Circumspection he improv'd his Days.

Whom most the Rays of famous Charity crown'd,

Who brightly shin'd,  and for Piety renown'd.

Famous brave NISBET,  our Lairds President,

Who for his CHRIST, and for his Cross, him spent.

Who for his Charity, so renown'd his  Name,

And for his Death, his Objects mourn the same.

When I his Vertues hear, and Acts so  great,

Which him so high among the Saints have set :

And here below, so lasting Glory wan,

His Zeal Loyalty, proclaims him a just Man.

D I R L E T O V N the Great, as plainly doth appear,

By antient Writings, above Five hundred Year.

So an Herald may, unblushing, say aloud,

He's come of ancient, honourable Blood.

And so upright in Virtues Track to tred,

That Heav'n in Earth, a heavenly Life he led.

For never was a more accomplish'd Laird,

Whose tender Heart with Piety was fed.

Mild and Propitious in his Heart connext,

First Fear of GOD, and Love of Justice next.

Vertues whose Habit, Happiness doth nourish,

Made his Tenents flow, and his Country flowrish.

Describe him as he was, I may and justly can,

A sober, righteous, and religious Man,

Guided his Family, govern'd his Affairs,

Faithful in his Counsels, qualified all Cares.

Steer'd all his Course through his Voyage here,

As Men their Ships by Cart, and Compass steer.

His Speech modest, just, fed from above,

His Actions equal, and his Heart all Love.

Unspotted was his Walk to those of high Degree,

And gain'd the meanest with his Courtisie.

His Fame seraphick in Devotions mount,                              

His Zeal constant, never waxing blunt.

Secret in Alms, for Piety a Lamp of Light,

In Business active, and a Laird most bright.

Then to conclude,   when such a Patriot dyes,

Charity,   and Piety bleeding lyes.

So cruel Death, his Praise still flourish shall,

Vertues survives the Body's Funeral.

For Emmanuel's Land he came ashore,

The Place to which he sent his Heart before,

EPITAPH.

HERE under lies, Dirletoun full of Grace,

A Laird most bright, for Goodness in his Face.
A Laird renoun'd, for secret Charity,                                             

A Pattern of Sobriety, Peace and Piety.                           

Reader, look it ne're be said of tbee or I,
I bat our Neglect, should cause our Light to dy.

                    A N

E L O G I E



On the much Lamented Death of Mr. John Hamil-
ton, Minister of the Gospel in the Gray-friars
Parish of  Edinburgh; and sometime, formerlie
in Ireland,

COME Citizens,  and mourne with me a part?
The Righteous Perish, and few Lay't to Heart.
A Faithful Pastor is call'd now to Heaven.
Who was a shinning Light, whilst among Men;
John Baptist,   hè might well be call'd for why!
None that came to him Unbaptis'd did Die
IRELAND may well his pious Zeal declare,
And Love he had to promote true Faith there;
Such was his Life and Doctrine 'mong the Savage
Natives thereof,  who did the Countrie Ravage,
Most Cruely its Ruins to Pressage;                        

Yet with much Mildness, He did them engage,
To yield and own,    his Message from above
Was sent,   and he an Harbinger of Love.
His Charity to all so far Extended,
That none could say, He any  e're offended
By Word or Deed,   but   endeavour'd alway,
To Recal such as Wandered Astray,                

From the Right Paths of Gods Commandments;
And brought them in by Gospel Documents
So that of  him,   it may be trulie sald.
Like John the Baptist,    He the Foundation laid
Of Righteousness somewhat into a Land,
Where ignorance Prevail'd on every Hand;
No doubt therefore his Pious Soul now sings,
Eternal praises to the King of Kings ?
And to the Lamb that sits upon the Throne,
With other Saints,   and the First Baptist John.ELEGIE

On John Pringle, Town-Piper of Lauder.

To the Tune of, Lang Unken'd.

[ Done by Maggie Riddel's Son. ]

OGosh! what will Come o' us now ?
John Pringles dead, and that I rew :
Had ye but kend him sae wad you,

Your Heart wad bleed.
He couthsome, trusty was and true;

But, Sirs, he's dead !

To gi'e a Tune he was nae sweir
At Pasch, or ony Time a Year,
Gi'e him a Waught of Ale or Bear, 

He made nae Doubt,
He green'd for nae mair of your Gear

But Soup about.

At Banquets, Bridels, Feasts and Fairs,
His Chanterlill dang down aa Cares,
He gart the Carles loup in Pairs,

And gape and sing;
The Littleanes spang'd upo' the Stairs

Like ony Thing.

He made them yaal o' Lith and Limm,
They danc'd till baith their Een grew dimm,
Then frae the Legen to the Brimm

He took his Scuds ;
Well did the Gentlemen like him,

He gart  them smudge.

Farmers ne'r loot him be in Straits,
For ilka Spring be sure he gets
A heaped Riddle fow o' Yets,

To be a Melder ;
The Sheltie never wanted Baits

Frae every Elder.

Now we that's young Chiells weeps and wails,
Ryving our Haffats wi' our Nails;
We'll get nae mae auld gabbet Tales

                        Frae him I doubt.

He'll blaw nae mair at merry Mails,

His Pipe's clean out.

At Bridels he held ay his Nain,

And Bell'd-the-Cat wi' Don. M'Clean ;

Wha now's as canty, blyth and fain,

As gi'n him Dollars.
That his Antagonist is gane,

And fled his Collours,

In Winter Nights he wad nae hook
To tell droll Tales like a Print Book,
And atween Hands to tack a Tuck

He was nae freff,

He sat in Baillie Lauder's Nook,

And gart us gaff.

Blyth has he been wi' Ale and Punch,
At Lauder, Gallowsheills and Dunce,
Chiells wad a gi'n his Bags a Punce

Till they had stooted :
He wan his Hairst-Fee at Tersonce,

And never louted.

At making of Lint-Wheels he dang,

And made them ay baith tight and strang;

Summer and Winter he was thrang,

And hated Greed:
For Pirns and Hecks whare will we gang,    

Now whan he's dead.

He'd shave your Beard the lee-lang Year,
For ae scaa'd single Fow o'Bear;
Good at it was he, I can swear,

Wi' cliver Whittles;
And Castile Soap, the best o' Gear,

Lay in his Shottles.

Barber, Wheel-wright, and Piper too,
For lack o' him what will we doo ?
Few like him e'er wan in a Croo,

Sae free o' Fraud.
Whan he was Fou his Drons plaid Boo,

And Baw-wau'd.

Yoke he and Habbie Symson's Ghost,

Upon Elysium's bonny Coast,

Where there is neither Snaw nor Frost,

They'll never sinder:
They'll have a Chapin and a Tost,

It's nae'ther Wonder.

Auld Andrew Hair that rings our Bell,
Gart aa my Heart dunt like a Mell,
Whan he gowl'd out that waefue Yell,

John Pringles dead !
I loord he had been stiff himsell,

And cauld like Lead.

Well, John, since Death, that dolefou Pest;
Nae langer here wad let thee last,
But 'mang the Dead did thee arrest,

Wi' Mools to mingle,
Aa we can say, we wish good Rest

To thee, John Pringle.

FINIS.ELEGY,

On   the much  to be lamented Death   of
James Whetty Taylor and Free-Man in
the Pattaraw who departed this Life Ap.
prile the 5th, 1720 about the 69. of his Age.
With a Caution  to his Successors.            

AND has Old Death that Bloody Knave,
Brought Honest Whettie to his Grave ?
Not in our Power his Life to save,

we're at a Loss.
For now he's laid into his Grave,

A Plack the worse;

This Whettie was a Taylor bred,
Who Honestly imployed his Trade,
And Sober Liv'd on what he had,

A Civil Goass.
Whom Death into the Grave has laid,

A Piack the worse.

Now who is there will Undertake,

The Lords of Session's Gowns to Make ?

I fear their Judgement is but Weak,

It wad them Cross.
He's Dead I'm Sorrie for his Sake,

A Plack the worse.

He Civily did go his Rounds,

Throw Upper and the Lower Bounds,

Locallity fought in the Founds,

And was not Crost.

In Grave now lyes by Death his Wounds,
A Plack the worse.

Now who this Money in will gather,
Or dare encounter Maggie Lauther ?
Sure I know not except a Teather,

Or Aimed Force

He's Dead the smote might been her Father,
A Plack the worse.

At Penny-Weddings who'le take Care,

Small Maces equally to share,

And give the Young-Folk Profit there,

It's to our Loss,
For Death hath catcht him in his Snare,

A Plack the worse.

Fonll fall you Death, could you not gather ?
And Seiz'd the Witches out of Calder,
And serv'd thy Turn, and gone no  surder ;
But to our  Loss.
Tane him away left Maggie Lauther,

A Plack the worse.

A Sober and an Honest Man,

None did deny it neither can;

For if they did they wad him wrong,

I do not Flatter,
There is no doubt it's now with Lim

A Plack the better,

A Caution to his Brethren of Trade.

BE sure when that you undertake,
the Session Gowns and doth them make;
Taxe a good Price that's no ill thought,
They will not Judge not plead for nought.

A Caution to  Penny-Wedding. Keepers.

WHen you to Penny-Weddings get
to many folk make little Meat,
Set down the Maces in good Order,
Tho' not well Drest will serve the surder.
This is the only way and manner,
To make Young-Folks to be the Cainer.

A Caution to the Locallity Gatherers.

LOcallity when you seek in,
Tho' disappointed make no Dine;
And when the Wives in Child Bed be,
Take Cheese and Bread and let them free,
Sick Folk or those with Age Decay'd,
Take nothing from ; make others Pay'd.
And when you come to Maggie Lauther
Stand at the Door and come no furder;
If you go in I'm sure you'l feel,
She'l beat your back and play the Di'el.      ELEGY
On LUCKY WOOD.

1.

O CANNYGATE poor Ellritch hole
What Loss what Crosses does thou thole ?
London and 'Death garrs thee look droll
		and hing thy head ;
Wow but thou has e'ne a cald Coal
		to Blaw indeed.
2.

Hear me ye Hills and every Glen,
Ilk Craig, ilk Cleugh, and hollow Den,
And Echo shrill that aa way ken
		the Waefow Thud
Be Rackless Death wha came unsen
		to Lucky Wood.
3.

She's Dead ou're true, she's Dead and gane,
Left us and WILLY burd alane,
To Bleer and Greet to Sob and Mane
		and Rive our Hair ;
Because we'le ne're see her again
		our Hearts are Sair.

4.

She gae'd as fait as a new Prin,
And kept her Houssie Snod and Been;
Her Peuter glanc'd upo your Een
		like Siller Plate;
She was a donsy Wife and clean
		without Debate.

5.

It did ane good to see her Stools,
Boord, Fire side and Facing Tools,
Rax, Chandlers, Tangs and Fire-shools
		Basket wi Bread
Poor Facers now may chew Pea-hools
		since Luky's Dead.

6.

She ne're gae in a Lawin saass,
Nor Stoups aw sroath aboon the haass,
Nor kept dow'd Tip within her Waa's
		but Reeming Swats,
She never ran four Jute, because
		it gee's the Bats.

7.

She had the Gate so well to please
With GRATIS Beef, dry Fish or Cheese,
Which kept our Purses ay at ease
		and Health in Tist,
And lent her fresh Nine Gallon Trees
		a hearty Lift.
8.

She gae us aft hale Legs o Lamb,
And did nae hain her Mutton Ham,
And ay at Yule when er'e we came
		a braw Goose Pye,
And was nae that good Belly baum                 
		nane dare deny.
9.

The Writer Lads sou well may mind her,
Furthy was the, her Luck design'd her
Their common Mither, sure nane kinder
		e're brake Bread;
She has nae left her Maik behind her,
		but now she's Dead.
10.

To the smaa Hours we aft fat still,
Nick'd round our Toasts and Snishing Mill,
Which asten cost us many a Gill
		to Aickenhead;
Good Cakes we wanted ne're at will
		the best of Bread.
11.

Cou'd our saat Tears like Clyde down rin,
And had we Cheeks like Corra's Lin,
That aa the Warld might hear the din
		Rair frae ilk head ;
She was the wale of aa her Kin,
		but now she's Dead.

12.

O LUCKY WOOD its hard to bear
The Loss but Oh ! we mann forbear,
Yet' fall thy Memory be dear
		while Blooms a Tree,
And after Ages Bairns will spear
		'BouT THE AND ME.

EPITAPH.

BEneath this Sod lyes LUCKY WOOD,
Whom aa Men might put faith in,
Who was nae sweer while she liv'd here,
Ta cram our Wames for naithing.E L E G Y
O N
THOMAS SMELLIE,

THIRD SON OF THE LATE
MR. WILLIAM SMELLIE, F. R. S. & A. S. S.

Ostendent terris HUNC tantùm fata, nec ultrà
Esse sinent. Æ NEID. Lib. vi. 870.

GRAY weeping vaults, and ever mouldering domes,
From whose worn sides the very sculptures die ;
In whose cold, dark, and ever silent wombs,
The dear, the good, the great, the honour'd lie

Thou hear'st not! object of my bursting heart;
Still first to hear when sorrow was the theme ;
Ere swiftly flew the sure unerring dart
That bade my bliss be like a morning dream.

Fair spreading hopes, with fond illusions fed,
How soon you have past, unconstant and unkind ;
The grass is waving on thy earthy bed,
And I am solitary here behind !

How oft deluded Expectation said,
Long be the light of Friendship's holy flame;
A thousand happy forms she anxious spread,
And talk'd of future Joys and future Fame :

But like a keen and bitter biting blast
That wastes the harvest ere the harvest day,
Thy heavy death o'er Expectation past,
And all my happiness fled far away.

Up rises Morn, clad in her orient bloom;
I feel no joy at her approaching light;
And Darkness falling, with her dreary gloom,
Brings not along the comforts of the night.

Still flows the eye that chearful hopes hath none;
No grief can rouse to life the crumbling clay;
No tears can animate the sapless bone,
Nor give the breathless form again to day.

Cold envious earth ! thou hid'st a scholar's breast,
That would have left admiring worlds behind ;
There virtue sleeps in dull oblivious rest,
That one day would have dignify'd mankind:

But long e'er Life hath reach'd her midway bound,
Fair starting o'er the hopeful morning dew,
Eclipsing darkness hath enveil'd thee round,
And heaven's bright azure stain'd with midnight's hue.

At Friendship's call, at Pity's bursting tear,
No more that bosom feels the generous glow;
Nor melts that heart when Misery's form is near,
That ever keenly felt a brother's woe.

Dim Winter's storms, and April's faithless gales,
And flaunting Summer, with her flowery head,
And Autumn, waving o'er her golden dales,
Shall waft no pleasures to thy silent bed:

For never dawns sweet Recollection there,
Nor dear Sensation lifts her chearful fight;
Destruction's banners fan the murky air,
And all is horror round, and all is night.

Why gone so soon ! we follow on a-pace ;
Why gone so soon, so much desir'd to stay ;
Towards the cold dwelling bends the unequal race,
But thou art gone before the expected day !

Too good ! too dear ! with every virtue blest ;
Friend of my heart, so early from me fled ;
Where now in yon all-hallow'd land of rest
Lifts thou on high thy gold-bespangl'd head :

Where, now remov'd from trouble and from care,
From Misery's pang, and Sorrow's tearful stound,
Fann'st thou aloft yon bright etherial air,
Where endless Happiness enfolds thee round ?

O ! if from fields of never-fading light,
Thou ever turn'st tow'rds poor Misfortune's cell,
Come but one glimpse before my longing sight,
Then for a little, gentle Shade ! farewell.

It creeps a-pace—nor long we wait behind ;
Short is the passage to the mouldering clay ;
Soon shall we meet, and parting none shall find,
And Death and Sorrow vanish both away.

O'er thy green turf, each lone revolving year,
I'll heave the sigh to early Merit due ;
And dreary shed poor Friendship's bootless tear,
For ne'er was one so hapless nor so true.