Kathleen Mavourneen.

Kathleen Movourneen, the gray dawn is breaking,
The horn of the hunter is heard on the hill;
The lark from her light wing the bright dew is shaking,
Kathleen Mavourneen! what slumbering still?
Oh, hast thou forgotten how soon we must sever?
Oh, hast thou forgotten how soon we must part? 
It may be for years, and it may he for ever,
Oh, why are thou silent, thou voice of my heart?

Kathleen Mavoureen! awake from thy slumbers,
The blue mountains glow in the sun's golden light,
Ah, where is the spell that once hung on my slumbers?
Arise in thy beauty, thou star of my night.
Mavourneen! Mavourneen! my sad tears are falling
To think that from Erin and thee I must part;
It may be for years, and it may be for ever,
Then why art thou silent, thou voice of up my heart!


Robt. M'Intosh, Printer.NORAH  MAGEE.

Copies of this song can always be  had at the
Poets Box 190 & 192 Overgate Dunde

PRICE ONE PENNY

Norah, dear,Norah, I cant live without you.
What made you leave me to cross the wide sea
Norah, dear Norah, oh! why did you doubt me
The world seems so dark and so drearly to me?
Why from old Ireland have you been a ranger
Why have you chosen the wide world to roam
Why did you go to the land of the stranger,
And leave your own Barney alone, all alone?

CHORUS

Come back to old Ireland the home of your childhod
The old village well, and the old willow tree,
Come back to the mountain the valley the wild wood
I can't live without you, sweet Norah Magee.

What have I done that my Norah should leave me
Oh! ho v I loved her, and thought that she knew,
Her leaving eld Ireland, so sadly would grieve me,
Was she afraid that my heart was not (rue?
Why was I silent when I might have spoken
And told her my heart all my heart was her own,
A true Irish heart that is shattered and broken
why did she leave her own Barney alone?

I  wandar all day by the field and the barn.
I wander at night by the hill and the dell.
lifes all a blank its been robbed of its charm
How I  loved Norah, my tongue ne'er can tell
Still I must wait while the pain here is burning,
I'll watch and I'll pray, when the wild billows roar
That the ship may be safely with Norah returning.
Back to old Ireland and Barney once more.ADIEU, MY NATIVE LAND, ADIEU.

This song can only be had at the Poet's Box, Price One Penny,

AIR—farewell to Albion's Heather Hills.



Adieu, my native land, adieu,

The vessel spreads her swelling sails;
Perhaps I never more may view

Your fertile fields, your flowery dales.
Delusive hope can charm no more;

Far from the faithless maid I roam,
Unfriended seek some foreign shore,

Unpitied leave my peaceful home.

Adieu, my native, &c.

Farewell dear village, oh, farewell;

Soft on the gale thy mnrmer dies;
I hear thy solemn evening bell,

Thy spires yet glad my aching eyes.
Though freqent falls the dazzling tear,

I scorn to shrink from fate's decree;
And think not, cruel maid, that e'er

I'd heave another sigh for thee.

Adieu, my native, &c.

In vain through shades of frowning night,

Mine eyes thy rocky coast explore;
Deep sinks the fiery orb of light,

I view thy beacons now no more.
Rise! billows, rise! blow hollow winds!

Nor night, nor streams, nor death I fear,
Unfriended, bear me hence to find

That peace which fate denies me here.

Adien, my natixe, &c.

The Poet is a general Job Printer, and executes all orders
with neatness, beauty and dispatch. The Poet assists all parties
in making up any kind of printing they may require done—such
as Invoices, Circulars, Bill Headings, Prices Current, Custom
House Forms, Excise Forms, Bills of Lading, Law Papers, Cer-
tificates, Pulpit Notices, Shipping Cards, &c.,. while all orders
receive the Poet's strictest attention. For cheapness the Poet
defies the world; for example he prints 100 Raffle Tickets for Is,

The Poet has the best songs in the world. The collection is
so superb that it will actually do your eyes good to see them.
Come, then, come away, and see them. Along with songs, the
Poet has many a nic-nack, such as Laces for Id the dozen ; Ink
for Id. the bottle; Soap for Lovers, bearing the lover's charm, for
Id. the cake ; Braces for Id. the pair ; Bell's Matches, or the
large sliders, for One Farthing the box. The Poet's Blacking is
only One [   ] the packet ; its equal is nowhere to be had
except in the Box.Sec.24.         BONNY

Nelly Brown.


O  Bonny Nelly Brown, I will sing a song to thee,
Tho' oceans wide between us roar, ye'll aye be dear to me,       
Tho' mony a year's gane o'er my head, since [down  in     
Linton's dell,                       
I took my last fond look o'  thee, my ain dear Nell.

O tell me Nelly Brown, do you mind our youthfu' days,
When we ran about the burnie's side, or speel'd the gowany
braes,
When I pu'd the craw-pea's blossom, and the blooming
heather bell,
To twine them round thy bonny brow my ain dear Nell.

How often Nelly Brown, ha'e we wander'd o'er the lea,
Where grew the brier, the yellow broom, and flowery
hawthorn tree,
Or sped 'mang leafy woods till night's lang shadows fell,
O we ne'er had thoughts o' parting then, my ain dear Nell.

And in winter Nelly Brown, when nichts  were lang and
drear
We would creep by the ingle-side some fairy tale to hear,
We cared not for the snawy drift, or nippin' frost sae snell,
For we lived but for each ither then, ray ain dear Nell.

They tell me Nelly Brown, that your bonny yellow hair,
Is snaw-white now, an' that your brow, sae cloudless ance
an' fair,
Looks care-worn now, unco sad, but I heed not what they tell
For I ne'er can think you changed to me my ain dear Nell.

Ance mair, then, Nelly Brown, I hae sung o' love an' thee,
Tho' oceans wide between us roar, ye're aye the same to me
As when I sighed my last farewell in Linton's flowery dell;
O, I ne'er can time my love for thee, my ain dear Nell.CALL ME BACK AGAIN

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box,
l90 and 102 Overgate Dundee.

You say good-bye the parting words wan spoken
I  leave you now, perhaps 'tis better so,
I give yon back each tender little token,
So far across the sea then I  must go,
Oh can it be from love yon have released me
Or,  that my hopes for you have been in vain
But when your heart has conpuerd pride and anger
I know that you will call me back again-

CHOURS.

Call me back again; call me back again;
And when your heart has   conquered pride and
anger,
I know  that you will call me back again.

You've left me now I never more may see you,
Those happy days of old must now depart.
The true fond love I once bestowed upon you,
Has flown away from me like Cupid's dart,
Oh yes 'tis so from  love you have released me-
Such dreary  thoughts have caused me grief and pain.
I love you still, such love will be for ever.
I know that you will call me back again.

I dream't last night a pretty little starling,
Came tapping  on my window blind,
And  in  its bill a message from my darling, —
Who said,   that she recalled those words unkind
So in my heart, love ne'er' can be a stranger
Such dreary thoughts have ceased to give me pain.
I love you now, such love shall live for ever
I know that you will call me back again.FAREWEEL.

Sung with great success by J. G. ROY.

Copies of this Popular Song can be had the Poet's Box,
OVERGATE, DUNDEE.

Guid evenin' frien's,  I hope your weel,
I'm prood tae see you a',
I just wis pas in' through the toon,
So I thought I'd gie you a ca',
I'am gaun away across the seas,
My fortune for lae try,
So i've just come tae see you frien's
An' bid ye a' guid bye.

CHORUS—

Fareweel,fareweel i'am gaun awa' tae leave you,
Come doon tae the beac, and see me safe adoat,
Eerly in the mornin, when the licht of day is dawuin',
A sail across the ocean in a big steam boat.

Last nieht a wheen o' chaps did meet,
To wish me guid speed,
Tae help  tae Keep oor spirits up,
We had a guid stiff fead;
We sang and joked the hale nicht lang,
We had a jolly spree :
I'll aye keep mind o' that blaw oot,
when far across the sea.

Spoken.—I, it was a rare shine we had, there wis a'thing that wis
wanted Rum , Whisky, Beer, tea& Lemonade, for the Teatoatle-
bodies. Ye Keu an  wid ye    bleave there wis a man there that stunch
T. T. that, he widna let his  canary B rd drink oot o'a dram-glass.
I amn' when we were comin hame Casey and me, thats a' mate o' mine,
we baith work wi', Mrs.  Mac Pherson,Hay & Straw Merchant.  Yin
O' they greedy screamin' auld bodies ye ken., weel their was ae Mor-
nin' Casey cam runnin' in a out o' beath aboot ten minuts past 6, an
he says, "Mrs. Mac Pherson, I had a dream last nicht" An what
was you drem  aboot Casey , o says he, "I thocht  that  that you gie'd
me a pound o' Tea and the Master gie'd me six pound o' Sugar, for
my my birthday present,.' bat says she, ' Die ye ken that dreams are
aye contrary, weel says Casey, "The Maste I'll gaun tae gie me the
Tea and you the Sugar. ' I weel he was. a fine  kind-hart'd chap
was Casey, weel the twa o's comin hame as, was sayin', an we were
lilten a bit sang we neard yin o' the lasses singin at the spree. What
was it o' aye, 'Oor H[ ] is Hay [ ]et butt nat oor hearts." when
the cirb tean oor feet an' s[  ]p,' gaed the twa o' os'on the plane stane,
but a faithful ever ready for the ocaison cam forret. an' lifted Casey
up, an' he says, 'D, you hear m[  ]  do you hear man dis she'll ken far she'll be." no says Casey 
"you're leanin' on the Bank of Scotland.
weelsays I, " That the  first time ever I  kent that place to support
that man," but I drew a half mutchken bottle oot o' ma pouch here
says  I "Tak'' a drink o' that an' he did, their was nae teeth awa-
ntin' in his head one way an then says he, "what areyou twa chaps."
o says i, 'Baith caarters ,"but says he, " what are ye tae principle,"
o says i, "sometimes Liberal, sometimes concertive, an' on sater-
day nicht a Spiritliast, an on Sunday mornin' snar tae be a Shaker,"
an says he ''What wil l ye cae them that brings in yer mornin' ," On
says I, Salvatonest,' so I took guid bye o' the booby and Casey an
me cam awa. Singing-Chorus.
 
If back tae bonny Scotland,
1 should ever chance tae roam,
I hope tae find ye a' quite weel.
When tae this toon i come.
And if it is my fortune,
To spend life's closing day,
Amang my native heather hills,
You'il never hear  me say.JOHN

REILY.

As I went out one morning clear down by yon river side,
I overheard a fair maid, the tears rolling down did glide,
This is a cold and stormy night, these words I heard her say
My lover is on the ocean wide bound for America .

John Reily they do call him, reared near the town of Rea,
He is as nice a young man as you did ever see,
My father he has riches and Reily he is poor,
Because I love a sailor they could not me endure.

My mother took me by the hand and this to me did say,
Your father says he'll have his life—so shun his company,
If you be fond of Reily let him leave this country,
For your father says he'll have his life so take advice from me

O mother dear, don't be severe, where must I send my love
My very heart lies in his breast, as constant as the dove,
O daughter dear, I'm not severe, here is a thousand pound,
Send Reily to America to purchase there some ground.

Soon as she got the money to Reily she did run,
To take your life this very night my father charged the gun
Here is one thousand pound in gold my mother sent to you,
Sail you to America and I'll soon follow you.

As soon as he got the money next day he sail'd away.
He hand't got a foot on board, these words to him did say,
Here is a token of true love, and we'll break it in two,
You have my heart and half my ring until I find out you.

In course of three weeks after she was walking on the quay,
When Reily he came home again and stole his love away,
The ship was wreck'd all hands was lost, her father griev'd
full sore,
When he got Reily in her arms, drowned on the shore.

And in her breast these lines were found, and they were
wrote with blood,
Cruel was my father that went to shoot my love,
That this may be a warning to all fair maidens gay,
Never let the boy you love sail to America.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Wholesale Stationer.
11  King St., City, Glasgow.    Upwards of of 50,000 different
sorts always on hand ; also, a great variety of Picture books,
Song-books, Histories, &c.    Shops and Hawkers suppliedon
Liberal Terms.

Soiree and Ball Cards, Large Posting and Hand Bills, In-
voice Tops, Circulars, Business and Fancy Cards, Society Ar-
ticles, Pamphlets, and every description of Letterpress Print-
ing done neatly and quickly. Lithographing, &c., &c.

14PATRIOTIC SONG.         

Ye sunny lands, beyond the main,                                
Where plenty smiles in store ;                                   
Thy charms may tempt our roving sons                       
To leave their native shore.                                    

But sunny shores and smiling scenes,                            
And flowers and fruits, though fine,                           
Are charms which ne'er shall have the power
To tempt me to leave mine.                                          

Auld Scotland's howes and broomy knows                   
Are dearer far to me                                                        
Than gold beneath a burning sun,
In lands beyond the sea.                                            

Ambition's restless sons may seek                                
For wealth beyond the wave ;                                   
I'll court contentment in the land                                
That owns my father's grave.                                    

Nay, I shall never leave that land—                             
The land where Wallace trode :                                 
The land where Burns the minstrel sung,                    
And Knox revered his God.                                       

Dear mountain land, though cold thy clime,                
And sterile too, thy soil,                                        
Still! still! I'll love thee while I live,                        
Mine own dear native Isle.                                       



JAMES KIRKWOOD.         


Garth, Denny.                                                                                   

The English Emigrant.

PRICE ONE PENNY.
Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the Poet's Box.

TUNE- Original.

God speed the keel of the trusty ship
That bears ye from our shore ;
-There is little chance that ye'll ever glance
On our chalky sea beach more.
You are right to seek a far off earth,
You are right to boldly strive
Where Labour does not pine in dearth,
And the honest poor may thrive.
God speed ye all ! ye hopeful band,
O'er your boundless path of blue;
But you'll never forget your own old land
Tho' wealth may gladden the new.

You'll often think of the black-thorn leaves,
And the dog-rose peeping through;
And you'll never forget the harvest sheaves
Tho' the wheat was not for you.
You'll often think of the busy ploughs,
And the merry beating flail;
You'll sometimes dream of the dappled cows,
And the chink of the milking pail.
God speed ye all! ye hopeful band,
With hearts still high and true;
But you'll never forget your own old land
Tho' wealth may gladden the new.

You'll call to mind good neighbour Hind,
And the widow down the lane ;
And you'll wonder if the old man's dead,
Or the widow wed again.
You'll often think of the village spire,
And the churchyard green and fair ;
And perchance you'll sigh, with drooping eye,
If you've left a lov'd one there.
God speed ye all! ye hopeful band,
With hearts still high and true;
But you'll never forget your own old land
Tho' wealth may gladden the new.

Perhaps ye leave a white-haired sire,
A sister, or a brother ;
Perhaps your heart has dared to part
For ever from a mother.
If so, then many a time and oft,
Your better thoughts will roam;
And Mem'ry's pinions, strong and soft,
Will fly to your English home ;
God speed ye all! ye hopeful- band,
O'er your boundless path of blue ;
But you'll never forget your own old land,
Though wealth may gladden the new.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postag stamps for the number required, along with ana
extre stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

Organ grinder
Ill-used organ man
Railway porter
Nil desperandum
On board the Kangaroo
The sugar shop
Sal and Methusalam
Six magnificent bricks
The widower that leeves on
our stair
Oor wee Kate
Pat and the whale

Saturday morning, June 24, 1871.THE  EDINBURGH

CONVICTS.

Come all young men of  learning,
A warning take by me,
I'd have you quit night walking,
And shun bad company.
Leave off your cards and play-houses,
Or else you'll rue day,
You'll rue your transportation,
When you are sent to Botany Bay.

I was brought up in Edinburgh,
The truth to you I'll tell,
Brought up by honest parents,
My master loved me well.
Brought up by honest parents,
Who reared me tenderly,
Till I became a roving blade,
Which proves my destiny.

My character was taken down,
And I was sent to gaol,
And at the last Assizes,
When I could find no bail.
And at the Assizes,
The Judge to me did say,
The Jury has found you guilty,
You must go to Botany Bay.

To see my aged Father,
As I stood at the bar;
Likewise my aged mother,
Her old grey locks she tore.
Likewise my aged father,
These words to me did say,
O silly son what hath thou done,
You are going to Botany Bay.

As we sailed down the Frith of Forth,
On the twenty-first of May,
And all our hearts were like to break,
With sorrow I did say.
And every ship that we passed by,
I heard the sailors say,
There goes a ship with handsome lads,
Bound down for Botany Bay.

There is a girl in Edinburgh,
A girl I do love well,
     If ever I gain my liberty,
With her I mean to dwell.
If ever I gain my liberty,
We never shall part again,
I'll bid adieu to Botany Bay,
Likewise to the Raging Main.

FAREWELL TO

SCOTLAND.

Farewell to Scotland,
It is my native ground,
To the county of Caithness,
Near to the Wick Town.

Its the place where I was rear'd,
From my infancy,
And to seek for promotion,
I am now going away.

My foot is on the ocean,
My heart is on dry land,
I am here broken-hearted,
On deck as I stand.

But had I my dearest Polly,
On ship board with me,
And I a bound slave,
I would count myself free.

Give my service to Nancy,
That lives on the shore,
And likewise to Peggy,
Although she is poor.

And likewise to Polly,
She's my whole heart's delight,
I could roll her in my arms,
Through a long winter's night.

The moon shall be darkened
And shall give no light,
The stars and the Firmaments,
Shall fall down by night.

The rocks and high mountains
Shall all be removed,
Before I prove false,
To the girl that I love.

[264]EMIGRATION

TO THE

CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.



HER MAJESTY'S

Colonial Land and EmigrationCommissioners

THAT they are prepared to receive applications from
Persons of the Labouring Classes, who may be de-
sirous of Emigrating to the CAPE OF GOOD

HOPE,   with   the   intention   of  working   there   for
wages, but who are unable to defray the whole ex-
pense of their passage.

The Applicants must consist principally of AGRI-
CULTURAL LABOURERS, SHEPHERDS,
HERDSMEN,BLACKSMITHS,CARPENTERS,
MASONS, BRICKLAYERS,COOPERS, MILL-
WRIGHTS, and BAKERS, with a few other de-
scriptions of Handicraftsmen, and FEMALE DO-
MESTIC and FARM SERVANTS.

None need apply who are not of the callings or Trades above-
mentioned, or who cannot produce evidence of good moral cha-
racter, and be well recommended for sobriety, industry, and ability.
Persons in the habitual receipt of parish relief, and the wives and
families of the soldiers of regiments in the Colony, cannot be taken.

Full particulars of terms, and forms of application, may be had
on applying to


          PATRICK JUST,

          Selecting Agent for Forfarshire.

Hours  of attendance, from 10 morning till 3 afternoon, and from

6 till 8 evening.

GOVERNMENT Emigration  OFfice,
15 Dock Street, Dundee, 20th January 1849.

J. DURHAM, PRINTER, DUNDEE.