Life, Transactions, and Execution of Thomas Connor and Bell
M'Mencmy, Executed at Glasgow for Assault and Robbery.

GLASGOW, 22d OCTOBER, 1828.—This morning, THOMAS CONNOR and
BELL M'MENEMY were Executed in front of the Court Houses, convicted at the
last Assizes of the crime of Assault and Rebbery.

It may be recollected that M'Menemy, on her trial, pleaded Guilty to the charge
of decoying a Highland boatman of the name of M'Kinnon, to the banks of the Ca-
nal, near Port-Eglinton, on the morning of the 20th May last, to which place, Con-
nor, by previous compact, followed, where, after cruelly maltreating their victim,
and knocking him on the head with a stone, to the great effusion of his blood, they
robbed him of forty shillings in silver, which the poor Highlander had secreted in.
the leg of one of his stockings.

Connor, who was 21 or 22 years of age, was born in the County of Tyrone, Ire-
land. The officers of justice describe him as being a bad boy ever since he was able
to crawl, and that this should have been the case there is no wonder whatever, for his
mother encouraged her son, even from his boyish days, in evil practices, and when-
ever he committeed an act more characterized by dexterity and skilful depravity than
another, he was sure to be rewarded by the caresses and applause of this most aban-
doned and most unnatural woman. Such being the footing on which this unfortu-
nate young man was placed at home, it would  be endless to relate all his petty depre-
dations and misdeeds; suffice it to say, that he was  some years ago banished forth
from the County of Renfrew for stealing an anvil and a cart wheel from a  smith in
Mearns, but it was never known by what means he succeeded in making away with
the anvil, as it would have required three men at least to have removed it to any con-
siderable distance. At another period of his guilty career he was banished from
Glasgow for theft; and on the 12th May, 1826, he was tried at the Circuit Court here
for robbing a man of the sum of L.2 3s., but escaped by a verdict of Not Proven.—
The danger he had escaped was immediately forgot, and any slight impression which
had been made by his long consinement—the ceremony and solemnity of the trial—
and the doubts and uncertainty he felt regarding his fate, were speedily effaced by
the decision with which his fears and his better feelings were always treated by his
cruel and unrelenting parent—she goaded him on in his guilty and unreflecting ca-
reer, until the commission of the deed which brought him to the gallows.

With this depraved young man, Bell M'Menemy,when she came to Scotland in
the year 1821, got acquainted through the medium of another female, and shortly af-
terwards, with his mother. Previous to this period no crime was ever imputed to her, 
and she had been creditably and industriously employed at a Steam loom Factory
From the day her friendship with Connor and his mother began, this unfortunate
female herself dated all her wickedness, aud all her misfortunes; she was hurried
on from one crime to another with a rapidity which gave her no time for reflection;
and she frequently acknowledged after her condemnation, that she had been guilty of
many actions which, in her own apprehension, were as criminal as that for which she
was about to suffer. She had been once in bridewell for stealing a watch. She was a
good looking woman, about 23 years of age, fair complexion, with red hair, and also
came from the county of Tyrone.

Since the condemnation of the unhappy prisoners, who were both Catholics, they
were frequently visited by Bishop Scott, Messrs. M'Grigor and M'Donald, and alto-
gether they behaved with much propriety, and listened to the religious advice of these
gentlemen with seeming penitence, especially the female prisoner, who seemed to be
from the questions she asked, not only a sensible, but a shrewd young woman.

They were recommended to mercy by the Jury on account of their youth, and pe-
titions were transmitted to the proper quarter for a commutation of ther sentence,
but without effect, on learning which the female wept bitterly for some time.

Soon after 8 o'clock the unhappy culprits ascended the fatal scaffold, attended by
the Rev. Gentlemen who visited them in their lonely cell. They were both decently
clad in mournings. The apparatus of death having been finally adjusted, the prison-
ers shook hands, and asked forgiveness of each other, and after  a short pause, the
signal was given, when the drop fell, and after a  few struggles, they ceased to exist.
It was altogether a melancholy scene.                                      

The crowd, as might have been expected, was much greater than usual, on account
of the execution of a female, which is fortunately a very rare occurrence in Glasgow,
as it is just 61 years since Agnes Dougal was  executed at the Howgathead for mur-
der, who is the first woman of whom there is any record of having been capitally pu-
nished here; and the last was Agnes White for murder, in 1793, so that it is 35 years
since a woman was executed here before.                                            

       John Muir, printer Glasgow.A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of
JAMES STEVENSON, who was Hanged at
Glasgow, on Wednesday Morning, the 1st of June,
1825, for Highway Robbery; with an Interesting
Account of his Life and Transactions.

GLASGOW, June 1, 1825,....The unfortunate individual upon
which the sentence of the law was put in force this morning,
was convicted, at our last Circuit Court, of highway robbery, in   
company with one Swinie, (who was outlawed) by attacking Mr
John Brown on the night of the 19th of January last, on the Cath-
cart Road, near the Fireworks, and violently assaulting him to the
effusion of his blood and the imminent danger of his life, and robb-
ing him of £25 in cash, two watches, and a variety of other articles.

Stevenson was found Guilty on the clearest evidence, and on pass-
ing sentence, Lord  Pitmilly addressed  him as follows:—" Painful
as the duty is, I feel it my duty, indeed, it is a duty which law and
Justice demands of me, to  pass on you the awful sentence of this
Court, for the grievous and wicked offence of which you have been
convicted, and that too, upon the most clear and positive grounds.
The crime of highway robbery is one that has always been punish-
ed with the utmost rigour, and most deservedly so, for it is one
that most materially affects the safety and well-being of the popula-
tion at large.    You cannot, I think, offer any thing in extenuation
of your crimes; for although the individual on whom you made
your ruthless attack, escaped with his life, there is every reason to
believe it was more the design of providence, than the wish of you
and your ruthless associates.    Nothing could exceed the base and
deliberate manner in which you committed this offence.   You went
out, at least you and your gang, coolly and feloniously to seize upon
your prey, and your victim that night was an old man....unattended,
whom you first beat to the ground, and who no sooner raised him-
self on his legs, than you, or two or more of you, made another
unmanly attack upon his  person, and robbed him of every article,
either of cash or otherwise, and even made off with his hat," His
Lordship then  warned  him to prepare for the terrible sentence of
death,'for crimes of the above description could not be allowed to
pass without the most rigorous punishment inflicted which the laws
of this country awarded.

Stevensen was about 21 years of age, and born at the village of
Muirhouses, a little to the south of this City; his father was a sea-
faring man, but died many years ago- He received an education
suitable to his station, and at the proper time he was sent to learn

the trade of a shoemaker, at which he continued about three years

when he left it: he was also a shart time, engaged as a turner, but
he soon relenquished it, and having fallen into bad company, he
committed several petty depredations. He was at last detected in
robbing a gentleman's house in the Gorbals, for which he was
committed to Bridewell.....Latterly he bad been employed in one of
the boats in rising Sand from the bed of the river. In the month
of march last a shop belonging to a Jew, in King Street, was broken
into and robbed of watches and other jewellery articles to the value
of £200 sterling, and all hopes of discovering the thieves had been
given up; but the robbers having quarrelled among themselves
about the division of the booty, one of them gave information
against Stevenson, when he was immediately apprehended, and in
the course of the investigation of the shopbreaking it was discovered
that he had also been guilty of the crime for which he this morning
forfeited his life on the gallows—another solemn warning to all
who are walking in the paths of crime, to turn from their evil ways,
for sooner or later detection will take place, and punishment will
assuredly follow.                                                                

Dr. Dewar, Dr. M' Lean, and Mr Morrison, chaplain of the prison,
were assiduous in their spiritual exertions  for his eternal welfare,
and to whose pious exhortations he paid the greatest attention. He 
freely acknowledged the justice of his sentence, and candidly own-
ed that it was  he alone who struck Mr Brown with the stab at the
time he was robbed.    Since his condemnation he gave information
that a number of the watches and  other jewellery articles, taken
from the Jew's shop, would be got below the sand in the bottom of
the boat in which  he wrought,  and upon  searching it they were
found and delivered up  to the  proper owner.    A petition was pre-
sented to Government in his favour, but the violent outrage on the
laws of which he had been found guilty, precluded the extension of
the Roya blemency towards him.

The usual time of execution was changed, on the present occasion,
from betwixt 2 and 3 in the afternoon, to betwixt 8 and 10 in the
morning, and consequently the croud began to assemble at an early
hour. Soon after 8 o'clock the culprit was brought into the Court-
hall, and after some time had been spent in devotion, he proceeded
to the scaffold, and when the fatal cord had been adjusted, he utter-
ed a short prayer, when the drop fell, and he was launched into
enternity.Execution.

A Full and Particular Account of the
Execution of JOHN HILL and WILLIAM
PORTER, who were executed at Glas-
gow, yesterday, Wednesday the 12th
May 1830, for Assaulting and Rob-
ing William Marshall, an old man of
76 years of age, on the 19th Decem-
last; with their Behaviour since con-
demnation and at the place of Exe-
cution.

W E D N E S D A Y morning, May 12, 1830,
JOHN MILL and WILLIAM PORTER,
who were convicted at last Glasgow Assizes of as-
saulting and robbing William Marshall, a man 76
years of age, in an avenue to the north of the city,
known by the name of 'Stewart's Road,' on the
evening of Saturday the 10th of December last,
paid the forfeit of their lives, at the usual place of
execution. Ever since their condemnation, the
prisoners conducted themselves with the greatest
propriety, and in a manner which gave those cha-
ritable and pious persons who visited them the
highest satisfaction.

In consequence of their youth—neither of them
being above nineteen years of age-a number of
humane individuals made considerable exertions
in order to obtain a commutation of the sentence ;
but the agents to the parties received for answer
that the prayer of the petition could not be com-
plied with, the crime being one of great aggrava-
tion.

On Tuesday evening, the parents and friends of
the two unhappy youths were admitted to take
their last farewell; and the scene that took place
between Porter, his mother and sisters, is describ-
ed to have been affecting in the highest degree.....

Both prisoners slept soundly for two hours on
Tuesday night. They were waited on at 7 o'clock
on Wednesday morning by the magistrates and
clergyman, who spent some time in prayer, and
shortly after the executioner appeared, who pi-
nioned both their arms.

After the usual religious ceremonies had been
gone through, they left the Hall, and with a com-
paratively light step mounted the Scaffold, where
Dr Smyth offered up an energetic prayer ; after
which Porter warmly embraced his companion,
and during the time the executioner was engaged
in adjusting the ropes, he prayed loudly. Hill
was heard speaking, but in a low tone.

Every thing being ready, Porter was furnished
with the handkerchief, when, in an instant, he
gave the fatal signal, and the drop fell. They
both struggled violently for three minutes, when
life was extinct. After hanging the usual time,
the bodies were cut down, and delivered over to
their relations. The crowd was considered larger
than on many previous occasions of a similar de-
scription; but happily every thing went off
quietly.

Edinburgh.....Printed for Felix O'Neill                 EXECUTION.

A Genuine account of the execution of
Thomas Black, who was, executed at
 Edinburgh this day for Housebreaking
with a sketch of his life and transac-
tions since his infancy,

This day, (10th Dec. )Thomas Black was brought up to un-
dergo the awful sentence of the law at the head of Libberton
Wynd, Edinburgh, for breaking into a house in the parish of
south Leith, along with John Reid. Reid has got a respite
during his Majesty's pleasure.

Since this unfortunate young man's condemnation, he has
evinced, we understand, a most becoming sense of his melan-
choly saituation, as well as the deepest contrition for his dissolute
habits of life. A few weeks ago he requested to be indulged
with a separate cell, as the society of his companions in misery
led to conversations on their former way of life, which served
to interrupt his more serious reflections, and to divert his mind
from those important considerations which his awful situation
was so powerfully calculated to excite. A respite for his fel-
low-sufferer who is somewhat yeunger, was received last week.
It can be no impeachment of the generosity of Black, or of the
sincerity of his repentance, to find that this act of mercy to an-
other, awakened in him all that love of life which had seeming-
ly been extinguished for ever. He sunk into a state of the
most heartless despondency for some time, and he could neither
think of the present nor of the future without the most agoniz-
ing feelings. During 2 days he scarcely tasted food. His mind,
however, was restored to its wonted tranquillity, and he ex-
pressed himself with calmness and resignation on the subject of
his approaching fate, an event to which he looked forward as
inevitable.

The Scaffold was erected as usual during Tuesday night.
and about seven o'clock next morning numbers were assembl-
ed and had taken their stance, near to the palling around the
scaffold. About half past eight, the melancholy groupe were
seen advancing slowly up Libberton Wynd, attended by the
Magistrate, city officers, and a strong guard of police officers;
the unhappy criminal was betwixt and in earnest conversation
with the Clergymen.

After mounting the seaffold, Black scarcely looked on the
immense multitude that was gathered around him ; one of the
clergymen gave a most impressive prayer, during which, and
a psalm which was sung, Black payed the greatest attention.
Having ascended the drop, the executioner commenced adjust-
ing the rope, and after a few minutes spent in private prayer,
he dropped the signal, and the drop immediately fell. The
struggles were very few.

Black was of a slender make, and was 18 and a half years
of age, he called himself only 17 years old when on his trial,
he spent his early years in Campbell's close, Canongate,
and was employed in drawing cords for weavers. His father
was formerly a farmer's servant, and his mother on removing
from the Canongat'e to the Cowgate some years ago, kept a
house of rather a loose character. She died in the Cowgate
and left him and a brother to the mercy of the world, exposed
to all its temptations, from the want of precept as well as ex-
ample ; his father having separated from the family some time
before. Moved by that pity which circumstances such as these
are calculated to excite, wha can but drop a tear for the mis-
fortunes of this unhappy youth, who has this day terminated
his mortal career the hand of a public executioner.

                                                   Execution.

OF

Craig & Brown.

FOR

HOUSEBREAKING.

A Full and Particular account of the Execution of John
Craig and James Brown, who suffer'd the last sentence
of the Law, in front of the New Jail of Paisley, for
Breaking into the House of Mr. Robertson, at Foxbar,
and stealing a quantity of Property, and ill-using the in-
mates : also an account of their behaviour since their tri-
al, and at the place of Execution.

An Execution in Paisley is a circumstance of very rare occurrence,
and may consequently be supposed to excite a much deeper degree of in-
terest, than in those places where they are regularly witnessed from time
to time with little space between. In 1765, Provan was executed at the
Gallowgreen of Paisley, for the murder  his wife under circumstance of
deep and aggravated atrocity ; since that time down to the present, a
period of 64 years, there has been in this town only one of these me-
lancholy and awful lessoos to erring humanity, This was the final exit
of Thomas Pott who was executed at the cross, (the former place of exe
ecution having been appropriated to other purposes) in 1797 for
housebreaking and theft, this man, with an accomplice, were tried
for the robbery of Gryffe Castle, in the neighbourhood of Paisley,
when Potts was found guilty condemned and executed as above mention-
ed, since which the Gallows on which Potts ended his career would have .
remained unemployed, had it not been required by the town of Gree-
nock for a similar purpose, from whence it has been removed for the
execution of these two unfortunate men, James Brown and John Craig,
who have this day in pursuance of their sentence suffered the awful pe-
nalty of the law. These two men we understand are natives of Ireland,
but have for some years been resident in Johnstone; when the affair for
which they suffer'd was concocted and which place they left shortly after
its perpetration in order to evade the hands of Justice. They were how-
ever both seized and brought to this country, and tried at the last assizes
where they were condemned for the crime of breaking into the house of
Mr. Robertson of Foxbar. On trial it appeared that these two unfortu-
nate men along with a person of the name of Stewart (who was outlawed
on the day of trial,) had forcibly obtained entrance to Mr. Robertson
who is an old man upwards of 70 living with only his sister a Lady of
nearly the same age.                                                                            

Since they were brought from  Glasgow these unfortunate men have 
been regularly visited by Clergymen and other religious persons, and
have evinced a deep feeling of contrition for their crimes, giving every
evidence of a repentance not to be repeated of,  In course of this fore-
noon they were brought into the Hall and after some pious conversation
and prayers they were brought out to the Scaffold, dressed in a very be-
coming and respectable manner, from their appearance they were ear-
nestly supplicating the almighty for pardon, and in presence of a most
immense multitude they were launched into eternity.

Owing to Glasgow Fast happening on this day the concourse of people flocking into this
town, during the early part of forenoon, was enormous, while the influx from the towns and
villages in the west was no less numerous, presenting as a whole, one of the most immens
crowds even  seen in this place, on any former  occassion.

PRICE ONE PENNY.                  EXECUTION OF JAMES CAMPBELL FOR

HOUSEBREAKING & THEFT.

GLASGOW, 16th MAY, 1831.

This Morning JAMES  CAMPBELL underwent the last sentence of the law, pur
suant to his sentence at the last Circuit Court, for breaking into the cellar-store of
Messrs. Watson, M'Night & Co., situated in George Street on the 23d February
last, and stealing therefrom four boxes and a basket full of cotton yarn. It appeared
from the evidence that this unfortunate young man, along with Thomas Fisher who
was sentenced to be  executed with him, but who has since got his punishment com-
mitted to transportation for life, and  other two, who  were dismissed, had gone to the
evening of the day above mentioned and wrenched  off a padlock which covered the
locP, and  then opened the door with a false  key, when Campbell and Fisher were 
detected in the very act of carrying out the fourth box, and putting it on a barrow.
When observed by the porters of the celler they immediately ran away, but were
closely  pursued and apprehended a short distance from  the place.

Campbell, who appears to be about 37 years of age,  is a native of Glasgow, and de-
scended from very respectable patents, who gave him a liberal education—(his mo-
ther is  still alive)—and it is a very singular and remarkable circumstance that he has 
been twice under sentence of death in this city, frist in September 1822, for house
breaking and theft. An application was afterwards made to Government for a com-
mutation of his  sentence, which was granted, on condition of his being transported
for life. The moment he received the intimation of it he fell down upon his house
and offered up a solemn thanksgiving to Almighty God, with a servent acknowledg
ment of his sense of the morev thus in prospect for him and of his obligations to
those gentlemen who had interested themselves in his favour, and expressed his de-
termination in the event of his life being spared of making reparation to his God and,
his country for the sins of his past life. But ah ! how soon the religious impressions
which were at that time administered to him by the many religious persons who at-
tended have been effaced from his heart, which, was at that that time considered to
be susceptible of receiving lasting impressions of the goodness of God to man, and
the Way of salvation through Jesus Christ.

He was never sent out of the country, having been kept on board the hulks for the
last eight years, Where, it is said, he acted in the capacity of teacher; and, by his good
behaviour, eventually received his  Majesty's pardon, when he returned to Glasgow,
and having renewed an intimacy with some of his old companions, and others of a
similar description, began afresh to commit depredations which, in 1822, he had re-
solved and re- resolved never to harbour a thought of for a single moment. Camp-
bell has a brother at present lying in our Jail, who had a very narrow escape at the
last Circuit from a similar fate, had it not been owing to the leniency of the Advc-
cate-Depute in restricting the libel, and he was sentenced to transportation for life.
He has been assiduously attended by the the Rev. Dr. Muir of St. James's, the
Rev. Mr. Fisher, Chaplain to the Jail, and a number of other pious individuals, to all
whose instructions he listened with  the most marked attention.

At the usual time in the morning. the prisoner was brought into the Hall, and
shortly  afterwards proceeded to the scaffold, where a short time being spent in prayer
by Mr. Muir, in which  the prisoner joined, and the executioner  having adjusted the  
rope, he gave the signal, and this world closed upon him ever.   The crowd was
very great.   

Reader-Thus has terminated in ignominy, not withstanding his repeated warn-
ings and former very narrow escape, the days of one  who, but for his crimes, might
have spent many years of happiness. Thus has one more been cut off in the mid-day
of life, by the strong hand of justice. How true, even in a limited sense, is the Scrip,
ture, When it saith, " the wages of sin it death."    Reader, whatever be thy condi-
tion, the sad spectacle before you ought not to be without in lesson.    Are you  pur-
suing like courses with him who has just now paid the forfeit of his crime?   Are you
living on the fruits of  dishonesty?   Are you spending your days in Idleness and your
nights in  debauchery? Do you despise the ways of honesty and the paths of industry
Do you shun  the counsel of the godly; and the pattern of the virtuous ? And do you
seek to hide your own individual crimes in the congregation of the wicked ?    If you
are one of this character, the victim now before you speaks, and should you neglect
the dread admonition,  he event of this day shall yet rise  up   against you in  judg-
ment. Fly ungodliness  shun evil company as shou wouldst do contagion; be in
dustrions, honest and sober;  seek instruction from your Bible ; directions from the
counsels of  the godly, and beg for grace and mercy by earnest and repeated prayer.

Reader—You may flatter yourself like the Pharase of Scripture, that you are
not like the unhappy felon ; but how many  are there, while  they do not openly vio-
late human law, yet are living without God and hope  in the world. Do you never,
deceive your neighbour to promote your gain? Do you never cover your deceit with
falsehood? Do you never take the name of your God in vain ? Do you never break
the holy Sabbath?  Do you never yield to debauchery, and indulge, in idle and vicions
conversation?  Reader, know then, that the progress of crime is " as the letting is
of water." The victim who  now expired before you, could remember the time,
when he would have shrunk from the commission of such crimes as those for which
he suffered.. How many who have suffered on the same scaffold, and others who are
yet their followers in crimes, could date their ruin from Sabbaths violated—from the
cou[  ] of parents, disregarded- and from sobriety neglected.                              

Reader—If thou be one who  has chosen  the good part, let the sad spectacle
redouble your vigour, with God's blessnig go forward in the work of tenderness,
and may you, in the hands of the mighty ruler of all things, be honoured instrument
of plucking, many life brands from the burning

The following is an interesting description of the manner in which criminal.
were wont to be executed in Glasgow. at the ownhead.  The unceremonious, quick,
morning despatch, is certainly no improvement on the solemn and affecting ceremo-
nial adopted by our forefathers:-"The criminal was led out from the old prison at
the Cross, arrayed in a loose dress of white linen, with  trimming of black. His
arms  being pinioned, he took his station  at the end of a cart, on which lay extended
the Coffin, of  shell, in which, his body  was About to be deposited. He had an open
Bible in his hand, and was  usually attended by one or two clergymen, who cacouraged
him is his devotions by the way and aded him in his  preparations for eternity. The
Magistrates of the city. prece and by the  the Town officers with thier halberts, and ac-
companied by a strong milita yguard  formed the procession. On its arrival at the
Bell of the Brae it stood still when occasionally a verse or two of a psalm were sung,
the malefactor himself giving out  the line,  and the multitude raising their hats from
their heads in token,of sympathy, while every window adjacent was crowded with
spectators. This affecting ceremony was sometimes performed in front of the Alms
House in Kirk street, where the tremulous notes of the  criminal were intermingied
with the plaintive intonations of the passing bell; and the whole catastrophe was
summed up by  psalm and a prayer, and frequently a last speech, at the place of
excution since 1814 till this period, there have  been executed in  front of the
nev prison no less than 50 individuals!!                          

                                                                     John Muir, printer.EXECUTION
OF                     
THOMAS CONNOR AND BELL M'MENEMY,

For Robbery and Assault with intent to Murder.

Glasgow, October 22d, 1828.

This morning Thomas Connor, and Beil
McMenemy suffered in front of the New Jail, a-
greable to their sentence. The crowd began to
collect this morning by day break, and by Seven
o'clock the crowd became so great, that num-
bers were severely bruised and otherwise hurt by
the extreme pressure against the railing which
separates the green from the street.	

About ten minutes to eight, the unfortunat
criminals made their appearance. Connor
seemed much dejected, and had to be supported
to the platform, while McMenemy, though be-
longing to the more timid sex, appeared to meet
her fate with greater resolution. Her courage
failed her, however, when she reached the plat-
form, and saw the multitude, who were met to
witness the miserable end of herself, and her
companion in crime.

Upon taking leave of her friends before com-
ing out to the Scaffold, she with great emotion de-
livered an advice to the young and unguarded.- the
following were the principal topics of her solemn
warning. She advised all in general, and females
in, particular, to avoid vicious and profine,asso-
ciates—to keep regular hours—to cultivate ac-
quaintance with the sober, the industrious, and
the religious part of the community—and regu-
larly to attend Divine Worship , and while such
conduct would secure them from ignominy, to
which she was deservedly exposed, it would also
give peace of mind, and make them respectable
members of Society. She had now seen the evil
of her ways, and found that the only way to hap-
piness is the way of heavenly wisdom; and
with the last words which she would utter on
earth, she would solemnly call upon all to
turn from their wickedness, and seek mercy
while it is yet, to be found. Hoping her last end
would prove a warning to those following a course
of iniquity, she Would bid them all FAREWELL!

After taking a farewell.of this world, her coun-
tenance exhibiting deep marks of penitence and
resignation, she placed herself in a proper
situation for the executioner to do his duty.
Her companion who had gazed on her for some
time with an expression of grief and des-
pair, now placed himself by her side. They
shook hands, and their faces were covered. Af-
ter a few minutes spent in private devotion, the
signal was made, and the partners who had lived
together in crime, were ushured together into the
world of spirits.

These unfortunate individuals who have this
day suffered the highest penalty which the law
can inflict, were tried on Wednesday, the 17th of
September last, along with other two, who were
acquitted.

They were all charged with the crimes of as-
sault and robbery. Having attacked a person
of the name of McKennon, near the Paisley
Canal, on the night of the 20th of May last, after
having cruelly abused him, they robbed him of
two Pounds and a pair of shoes.

Ever since their sentence, they have been to
all outward appearance extremely penitent, con-
fessing their crimes, and praying for forgiveness.
The female appeared to be much shocked with
the idea of appearing before the crowd, and was
extremely agitated by the rumours which were
abroad concerning her.

This unfortunate young woman formerly resid-
ed in Paisley, and it was in this town that she first
departed from the line of honesty. Shortly after-
wards she removed to Glasgow, where evil com-
pany completed her ruin. She is but 25 years
of age, and the only woman that has been exe-
cuted in Glasgow these 32 years. Such was the
public excitement on this occasion, that the City
was in a commotion during the whole night; and
strangers continued to pour in from Paisley, and
other parts in the country from three in the morn -
ning up to the hour of execution.

During the time which, has elapsed since re-
ceiving sentence, they have been regularly visited
by most respectable Clergymen of various per-
suasions, who all united in their laudable en-
deavours, to open the eyes of their understand-
ings to a proper sense of their condition.

A few minutes before they left the hall,  they  
lifted their voices, along with a number of persons
present, in praising God, by singing the follow-
ing hymn.

When rising from the  bed of death,
O'erwhelm'd with guilt and fear,
I see,my Maker face to face,
O how shall I appear 
If yet while pardon may be found,
And mercy may bo sought,
My heart with, inward horror shrinks,
And trembles at the thought.

When thou, O Lord, shalt stand disclos'd
In majesty severe,
And sit in judgment on my soul,
O how shall I appear                 
But thou hart told the troubled mind
Who doth her sins lament,   
That timely grief for errors past,
Shall future woe prevent.

Then see the sorrows of my heart,              
Ere yet it be too late ;
And hear my Saviour's dying groans,
To give these sorrows weight.
For never shall my soul despair
For mercy at thy throne
Who knows thine only Son has died
Thy justice to atone

It may not be improper to notice, that this un-
fortunate female appeared at her execution dres.,
sed in a suit of clothes most generously bestowed
by the Female Benevolent. Society. The multi-
tude was most immense ; every spot from which
it was possible to obtain a glimpse of the sufferers
being literally crammed with spectators.

Printed  by Edwards .                      Particular Account of the Execution and behaviour of a young man, named David Wylle, who suffer
ed at; Glasgow, on Wednesday the 12th November
1823, for Housebreaking and Theft, with his
Warning to the young to beware of the numerous
gangs of thieves who art at present committing
crimes through the country, also his affectionate
address on the scaffold.

Glasgow, Wednesday, Nov. 12th, l823

This day, the above unfortunate young man underwent the aw-
ful sentence of death, for being a partner in the expensive theft,
aggravated  by housebreaking, from the house occupied by James
Herbert Rodgers, Esq. Gordon Street, Glasgow. This young
man was libelled along with 'David' Dunsmore, Ann Dunsmore,
his wife, William Johnston, John Toy, and James Perguson, all
concerned in different ways of plundering and resetting the fol-
follwing, articles;..The family had gone to sea-bathing quarters
on the 19th of Sept. 1822, and did not return till the 19th Oct. 
Following, when they found their house completely ransacked, all
the locks forced off the press doors, and all the plate, gold and
silver coin, wearing apparel, &c. carried off, Wylie and Johnston
were found Guilty and sentenced to be Executed, but the latter
 has since been respited. Dunsmore and his wife were transported
for 14 years; Toy to be imprisoned for 18 months in Bridewell ;
and Ferguson was outlawed. This was one of the most extensive
thefts which has been committed for a long time, and their con-
nexion is said to have extended a considerable way.

This young man's conduct since sentence was passed upon  him,
has been in every respect  highly becoming his future  prospects,
and contrition for his past life; the thought of time mis-spent, of
crimes committed, of acquaintances whom he once loved, separat-
ed from him for ever, and finally, the parting with those parents
a very composed  manner,   decently attired; after  viewing the
surrounding multitude, he took an affectionate  farewel of them,
observing, " The crowd   which   I  now behold,   I once mingled
among, to behold the end of some   wretched victim  or victims;
at that time I little though at a fare  like theirs  would   so soon be
mine."    After a   few minoutes spent in  prayer, he gave  the  last
signal  was thrown off.  and his struggles in time ended.    At the
"who counselled,   instructed,  and by every tic which links human
nature together, warned him of impending danger ; all these weigh-
ed heavily on his  mind,  and impressed in a variety of shapes the
awful situation  in which he had  placed himself; but the  gospel
has a  balm for every wound, a hope for every fear, an eternity off
happiness  for a dark day of adversity,  and a change of earthly
pursuits for   heavenly joys;  all-these,  aided by the valuable  in-
strctions of several Ministers of the city, and the kind treatment
ef pious and benevolent friends, (especially of those under whose
immediate care  he was placed,) dispelled his doubts,  animated
his hopes,  and enabled him   to look   forward with exultation  to
that change which awaited him.

From the hour of condemnation, to the hour he appeared on
the ignominous board, he has (we anxiously hope) fully atoned
for his bypast life....Ministers exhorted, prayed, and offered up
praises in his behalf during the time he was confined in his soli
tary room ; and the devotions of the hall, which continued for
about an hour, in reading, prayer and praise, fully prepared him
for ascending the fatal drop, which he did about three o'clock in
time when his companion received the respite, language cannot
pourtray the feelings which predominated in his youthful breast,
it affected him more then the sentence itself.

During the time of his confinement, he told those who visited
him, to warn the youth of the city to beware bad company, es-
pecially resetters, who haunt young  men in their houses : who
give them meat and drink for the pilfer which they prompt them
to take in a clandestine manner; little money is given to the
depredators, and what is gained by those destroyers of youth,
who sell the property of honest people, is spent in debauchery
drunkenness, and every thing which degrades human nature.
Bad women and sabbath breaking he considered as two evils next
in magnitude to the one already mentioned, the whole of which
he warned young and old carefully to avoid, especially those num
bers of young persons who are at present living by no other
means than housebreaking and theft.

Wylie belongs to Paisley, is about 17 years of age, and by trade
a weaver.    His parents are respectable, and no person can blame
but rather feel for them, when the fault lay with the young man
man himself, who despised  the   wholesome  counsel which they
afforded him, and which he knew when too late.                             

Printed at Glasgow....Reprinted at Edinburgh for J. Young,   An account of  the Trial of Alexander Cain, alias O'Kane, before the  High Court of Jus-

ticiary, Edinburgh, for wounding severely on the bead, and other parts of the body,   Archi
bald Stewart, Cattle-dealer, while in Stirling, and robbing him of One Thousand and Ten
Pounds ster.—who was found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged, at Stirling, on Friday
the 21 st of February, 1812.

ON Monday the 13th of January, 1812, came
on, before the High Court of Justiciary, E-
dinburgh, the trial of Alexander Cain, alias O'Kane,
accused of having, on the evening of the 11th of
October, {the day on which Anderson and Menzics
were executed at Stirling, for robbery) with one or
more persons, attacked, in the town of Stirling,
Archibald Stewart, cattle-dealer in Dalspidle, who
had just arrived from Falkirk Tryst, where he had
received a sum of money; and of having struck and
wounded him severely on the head and other parts
of the body, to the effusion of his blood, and loss of
his senses for the time, and of robbing him of one
thousand and ten pounds sterling, chiefly in notes
of the Falkirk Bank Company.

The Jury being sworn in, the witnesses for the
Crown were then examined.

Sir.Thomas Kirkpatrick, Bart. Sheriff-Depute of
the shire of Dumfries, swore, that the notes of the
Falkirk Banking Company, exhibited, were taken
from the person of the prisoner, in a small public-
house in the town of Dumfries; some of them were
concealed near the waistband of his breeches; and
 also, two twenty-pound notes,which he endeavour-
ed to conceal in his hand, while they were search-
 ing him; and several others were found concealed
in the chimney of the room where he was.

Archibald Stewart, cattle-dealer, Dalspidle, not
being able accurately to understand the English lan-
guage, Mr. M'Intyre, a gentleman accidentally in
Court, who understood Gaelic, being sworn, acted
as interpreter:—Received L.9oo from Duncan Ca-
meron, in October last, L.770 in Mrs. M 'Kenzie's
tent, and L.7O in M'Nab's house in Larbert, all in
Falkirk twenty-pound notes and five-pound notes;
tied them up all together; he received, besides, two
drafts from Duncan Cameron, for L.200 each, and
a missive letter for another L.200; he left Larbert,
and arrived in Stirling about Dusk, but could not
say exactly about what hour; he put up at Henry
Abercrombie's, St. Mary's Wynd; dined there, and
afterwards went out by himself to see his horse sort-
ed; his money was in his waistcoat inside pocket,
and the drafts, &c. wrapped up in leather in his
coat pocket. Some other cattle-dealers were also
at Abercrombie's, and they having gone to the bank
to transact some business, after he had looked at his
horse he went to see and meet them; but not having
met them, he went into a house and had a dram; a
woman was in company; she merely tasted with
him, they  had no conversation. On his return,
while at an entry at the end of Abercrombie's house,
saw two or three men coming towards him; re-
ceived a severe blow on the crown of the head,
which stunned him; recollects the men taking the
money from him; one had his hand on his mouth,
another a hand on his neck, while the third said
"lay to him;" he thought he felt the man's hand
tremble while taking the money; does not recollect
the appearance of the men, it being dark, and he
stupisied by the blows, but thinks one of them was
a tall man. It was a considerable time before he
could find Abercrombie's honse; he went in, much
cut and bruised; got a Surgeon, and was consined
some days. Same night his leather parcel, con-
taining the drafts, was found by the Crieff post-boy,
and the following day he received it from Mr. Aber-
crombie; had been tasting during the day, but was

not intoxicated; it was the day two men were ex-
ecuted for theft at Stirling.

Some witnesses proved Stewart's getting, at the
Falkirk Market, on the 11th, the notes which were
afterwards found in the prisoner's posession.

Several witnesses were examined, who proved
that they saw the prisoner lurking about Stirling
the day the robbery was committed-that they saw
201. notes in his custody, and endeavoured to have
him seized, when he made his escape, and took the
road towards Dumfries.

Daniel Freer, cowfeeder at Lochrin, deponed,
that he met the prisoner on a Sunday in Oct. as he
was going to church in the afternoon, who asked
the way to Dumfries; said he would point it out if
he would come with him, as he was going to the
church; prisoner told him he had been in bad com-
pany, and had slept with a girl the night before,
who had robbed him of 449 guineas,, observing,
" You will perhaps think that a great sum for a man
like me to have, but I have a great deal more;" and
on this pulled out a large bundle of notes from his
breeches, and counted 700l. of large notes of the
Falkirk Bank. Witness, not liking his company,
after drinking share of a  gill, left him.

Samuel Gibson, serjeant of the police guard,
Dumfries. He apprehended the prisoner. Prison-
er said, if he would call on him next day he wished
to see him by himself; he did so, when the prisoner
said he wished he had given him 100 guineas the day
he took him to have let him make his escape; that
if there was no other person with him, he was cer-
tain, from his kindness to him, he would. Witness
replied, he might or he might not in that case, but
that now it was impossible, as there was another
man behind him. Prisoner said—" I think I could
trust you with a secret; if you would keep it, it
 would make you up for life, and save me." Asked
witness if he would swear on a book, as was the
manner in his country; witness went out and told
this conversation to the jailer, who advised him to
do nothing against his conscience; on which he re-
turned and told the prisoner that it was not the cus-
tom to give books to two together in jail, but only
to allow one to a prisoner alone, to amuse himself.
He said, it was no matter, if witness would hold ,
up-his hand and swear, he might have L.400, all in
L.5O notes, in half an hour; that there was no
danger, as he might keep the money till the noise
was over, and then pass the notes one by one.--
Asked him, if it was part  of the money robbed from
the man at Stirling; on which he put his hand on
witness's breast, and. said, " Don't—don't ask that
question; you shall have an equal share, which will
come at L.140" Witness answered—he would try
to convey the money to him, But would take no
share. He immediately went to Provest Staig, and
informed him of what had passed. Sir T. Kirk-
patrick was in consequence sent for, and the prison-
er's room fearched, when a parcel, containing a-
bout L.340 in Falkirk L.5 bank notes, was found
concealed in the chimney. Saw the prisoner search-
ed, when the pocket-book and L.20 Falkirk bank-
notes were taken from him.

The evidence being finished, the sury were inclosed about half

pasT eleven night,and next day returned their verdict,all in one   

voice finding the prisoner Guilty. After a suitable admonition
from the Lord Justice Clerk, he was sentenced to be hanged at
Stirling, os Friday the 21st Feb, next. [T, Duncan, Printer.EXECUTION 

OF                                                          

MRS.   M'KINNON,

Who was Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday morning the
16th April, 1823, in the presence of' 30,000 spectators, for the
Murder of Mr. Wm. Howat, and her body given for dissec-
tion; with an account of her Dress, Behaviour, and Dying
Declaration on the scaffold.

Edinburgh, April  6 —.This day Mrs. M'KINNON was Executed here pursuant to
her sentence. for the Murder of Mr Wm Howat, a writer's clerk by stabbing him
with a knife. It appeared that Mrs. M'Kinnon kept an infamous house on the South
Bridge, and that Howat, along with some companions on the evening of the 18th
of February last went to her house intoxicated and after drinking some time a
squabble took place betwixt them and some of the girls who lodged in her house.
Mrs. M'Kinnon was absent at the commencement of the affray, but she soon arrived,
and flying into a passion, said " Give  me a knife and  I will soon settle the b------,"
she  then deliberately went to a knife-case, and snized a knife, with which she gave
Howat a mortal wound in the breast, of which he died several days after in the In-
firmary. Her trial lasted 18 hours, and excited the greatest interest, and till near
the end, she had great hopes that it would prove favourable to her, but when she
heard the verdict, she exclaimed, " Lord have mercy on me," and immediately
fainted.

Mrs. M'Kinnon has conducted herself since her trial with the greatest propriety,
At first, her mental agony was so excessive, that she refused sustenance of every
kind, until the evening of the following Sunday; but since then she acquired more
fortitude and on being informed that  her petition for mercy could not be complied
with, she heard final doom with the greatest composure. Early on Monday morning
She was removed from the Calton hill Jail to the Lock-up-house; she appeared very
dejected, and was supported on the arm of  an old woman.

About half-past eight o'clock she left the Lock-up-House, attended by the Ma-
gistrates, officers, and the Rev. Mr. Porteous, the chaplain of the prison and seve-
ral other  pions  Gentlemen, and proceeded with a slow and feeble step to the head of
Libberton's W ynd, where the scaffold was erected On her arrival at the fatal spot
she appeared greatly agitated, and a general sigh of sorrow pervaded the immense
multitude  who had assembled to witness her melancholy end

During the  time that the awful preparations were  going on, she was  supported by
two of the attendants; she denied to the last as having committed the murder and
hinted that first a woman of the name of M'Donald was the perpatratior; but she died in
peace with  all men; she trusted in Him who hath said, "He that sincerely repent-
eth shall be freely  forgiven." The fatal cord being adjusted, a short but impressive
prayer was pronounced in which she seemed fervently to join; about five minutes
before nine o'clock this unhappy victim of passion expiated with her  life, the  outrage
which she had committed on the laws of God, and of her country —an  awful warning
to the dissipated of the one sex, and the vicious of the other  After she had hung
the usual time ,  her body was taken down and conveyed to the College for dossection.

Mrs, M'Kinnon was elegantly dressed in a black silk gown, trummed with white
lace at the bottom. silk stockings, and white slippers  she  was betwixt 35 and 40
years of age, good looking and rather corpulent.  Her father at one time was quar-
ter master of the 79th regiment of foot  At a very carly  age she was debauched  by
an officer in the army,  under very atrocious circumstances; and  after that event her
family thrust her from under their roof, and totally abandoned her, to which cir-
cumstance may be attributed her after course of prefligate life                              

The crowd assembled on this lamentable occasion, wss unusually great at an ear-
ly hour the   High Street was crowded, and all the    windows tops of houses, and every
elevated place within view of the fatal  spot filled with spectators, so that it is
calculated  that not less than 30,000 people were present.   

						John Muir Printer, Glasgow.
  EXECUTION

OF

CHARLES DONALDSON, Sail-maker, Tolbooth Wynd, Leith,
who was Executed this morning, at the head of Libberton s
Wynd, for the Murder of Margaret Marr, his wife.

Edinburgh,  Monday, April 4,  1836.

        THIS morning,   soon after eight   o'clock,   Charles   Donaldson,sail-maker, Leith, underwent the extreme penalty of the law,
upon a scaffold erected at the west corner of the County Hall, head
of Libberton's Wynd, for the murder of Margaret Marr, his wife,
by striking her repeatedly on the head with a frying-pan, on Mon-
day the 9th of November last, in consequence whereof she was
mortally wounded, and died on  the Wednesday following--afford-
ing another melancholy example of the misery and crime conse-    
quent upon the intemperate use of ardent spirits.

From the evidence adduced at his trial, which took place on the
14th of March last, it would appear that he and the deceased lived
very uncomfortably together, --she being much addicted to drinking,
for which he used frequently to beat her. On that fatal evening,
coming home from his work, he found his door locked on  the in-
side ;  and, borrowing a knife from a neighbour,  he pushed back
the lock and gained admittance, when he found his wife lying a-
sleep in bed, from which he pulled her out upon the floor, where
he kicked her severely with his feet, broke a bottle on her head,
and struck her repeatedly upon the head with a frying-pan, till
she became insensible.    The only words she was heard to utter
were, "Oh! Charlie, Charlie."    In this state she was put to bed,
where she continued in a state of stupor, and died on Wednesday
evening.    The jury found a verdict of Guilty, but recommended
the prisoner to mercy ; and the awful sentence of death was pro-
nounced against him.

During his long confinement previous to his trial, the unhappy
culprit entertained strong hopes of acquital ; after his condemna-
tion, however, he became fully alive to his awful situation, indulg-
ing but very faint hopes of a respite through the jury's recommend-
ation to mercy, and lending the most serious attenion to the reli-
gious instructions of the worthy clergymen who attended him.

He was brought over to the Lock-up-house about ten o'clock
last night, where he was immediately waited upon by his spiritual
advisers, with whom he spent the greater part of the night in de-
votional exercises.

A little before eight o'clock, the  Magistrates, attended by their
officers, appeared in the hall of the Lock-up, when Donaldson was
ushered in, and a psalm being sung, and a fervent and impressive
prayer offered up on his behalf, he underwent the usual operation of pinioning his arms.    The melancholy procession then moved up
Libberton's Wynd,  to the scaffold erected in the Lawn-Market
Here a most pathetic prayer was again offered up, in which the un-
fortunate man appeared most seriously and attentively to join; and,
after shaking hands with those around him, he was then assisted to
ascend the fatal drop.    The executioner proceeded to adjust the
aparatus of death, while the unfortunate man appeared to pray very
earnestly.    In a few minutes he let go the fatal signal, when the
drop fell, and the world closed upon him for ever.    He struggled a
good deal, and appeared much convulsed.    After hanging about
six-and-thirty minutes, the body was lowered down, and afterwards
conveyed to the Calton Jail, there to be interred, in pursuance of
the sentence.



Sanderson, Printer, High Street, Edinburgh. 

EXECUTION.

An account of the Execution of John Thomson and David Dobie, for the Assault
Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, on the 17th April last, with an
affectionate Letter sent to Dobie's Wife.

                                                                                 
David Dobie. Margaret Paterson. John Thomson.

Edinburgh, Wednesday morning, 9 o'Clock, 18th August 1830.

THIS morning the above represented  unfortunate   young   men,  DAVID
DOBIE and JOHN THOMSON, Carters, from Gilmerton, in the vicinity
of this City, suffered the last punishment of the law at the head of Libberton
Wynd, a little before nine o'clock, for the Assault,  Murder  and Robbery o
Margaret Paterson, an unmarried young  woman, on the road near Gilmerton
on the evening of the  17th April last.

These men were very rude and ill-behaved before and at their trial, it will
be recollected, and were obliged to be put in separate cells in the Jail soon
after their condemnation, on acconut of the many reflections at one another's
conduct, and on the share that each said the other had in that late awful and
abominable transaction, that brought them to an untimely and shameful end.
As the time they were doomed to expiate their crimes on the scaffold approached,
they were both brought to a proper sense of their awful situation, and to see
the absolute necessity of an immediate and most fervent appeal to the only
quarter from which they could possibly expect mercy....to the great God of
heaven and earth, through the death and sufferings of his only begotten Son,
Jesus Christ. This great change must surely be ascribed principally to the in-
defatigable exertions of the Clergy, and other devout persons who visited them,
under the divine blessing. The following Letter from Dobie to his wife last
week, will better show the state of their minds at the time:....

" My Dear Wife...I write these lines to you, hoping you may receive some
consolation from them. This is the only comfort that I can now bestow, to let
you know the state of my mind; although my guilt does stare me in the face,
I trust God will be merciful to me a humble penitent; although my hands are
stained with the blood of that young woman, I trust the blood of Christ will
wash me from my guilt. Dear Wife, I am quite resigned to my fate; I forgive
all my enemies, and I trust they will also forgive me ; I die in peace with all
men. You will not have the pleasure of laying my body in the dust; I beg of
you, as a last wish, that you do not grieve on this account, as these dry bones
will perhaps live to future glory, where men Cannot scatter them.

" Dear Wife—Show this letter to the aged father of Margaret Paterson, whose
hoary head we have brought with sorrow to the grave. We sincerely ask his
forgiveness, which is but a poor consolation to him for the loss of his daughter
whom he held so dear, which, by our wicked and subtle hearts, has left him to
bewail the loss of a child, and you a faithless husband. Give my last sincere
respects to all my friends and comrades, and to the grace of God I leave you
and them for ever.—Farewell !....Farewell !                      D. DOBIE."

Edinburgh Jail, 12th August, 1830.

Accordingly, having been removed from the Jail to the Lock-up-Housn last
evening, where they devoted a few hours to sleep, they were early waited on by
the officiating Magistrates and Clergymen this morning; and, after spending
some little time in religious exercises, and pinioning their arms, soon after
eight o'clock they appeared on the Scaffold, cleanly dressed. After a Psalm was
sung, and an impressive and fervent prayer put up on their behalf, they mount-
ed the fatal drop, where they were seen praying themselves, when the caps
were drawn down on shaking hands. In a few moments a signal was dropped
by Dobie, and they were instantly launched into the World of Spirits. An im-
mense number of spectators attended. After hanging the usual time the bo-
dies were cut down, and laid in shells to be afterwards conveyed to the College
for dissection.                                             (Price One Penny.)

Robertson and Thomson, Printers, Edinburgh.   EXECUTION.

The   Behaviour,  Execution, and  Life  and  Transactions   of  GEORGE

DUFFY, who suffered at Glasgow on the 7th Nov. 1832, for the cruel

and brutal   Murder of his own Wife, in Drygate Street, in May last.

GLASGOW, 7th Nov. 1832.

This day, the above unfortunate individual
suff red in front o' the Jail here. The following
is the substance of the way and manner in which
he committed this horrid and  brutal deed :—

George Duffy was indicted for the murder of
Helen Broadly, or Duffy, his wife, having vio-
ently seized her person, and by force carried her
to and threw her upon the  fire and held her
thereon, or close thereto, where by she was so,
severely burnt  in the back, belly, legs. and other
parts of the body, as to lineer  from 14t h M ay to
9th June, when she died—he having for several
months  previous used her with great cruelty

Alexr Godan, weaver, deponed, that he and
his wife lodged for eight months previous to May
last, to the same house with pannel  and his wife.
who occupied the kitchen, while he occupied the
room, which entened through the kitchen ; bad
full opportunity of knowing on what terms  Duffy
and his wife lived; he was very violent in  his
temper, especialy to her; has seen him thresh
her, and was twice obliged to interfere to sade
her; she was seldom without  marks of violence
upon her body ; Duffy was seldom sober ; recel
lec's of him being once sober for three days to
gether. Mrs. Duffy took a dram sometimes; saw
her only once tipsy ; her temper was easy; she
did not provoke her husband—during the three
days that I saw him so er, he used  his wife very
harshly—saw him on two occasions knock her
down—he felled her to the floor. One day she
had gone out with another person, and on her
return  Duffy took her to account, and said he
would burn her. She was industrious and had
to work for herself and did every things for her
husband beside. He dra  k all his earnings  com-
monly—she washed cleaned houses, and any
thing for industry and shared it with  her hus-
band. She was a  little neat woman, about five
feet high. He was asked  if he recollected  any
thing particular happening on  14th May ? Ano-
ther women came to ask for some money from
Duffy, and his wife and this women went to seek
him. Witness came he me about nine o'clock;
as he came through the kitchen, Mrs. D. was in
bed; heard her husband say to her. 'you-
come out of that of I'd  haill  you to -."-
Thought is presence night stop him from worse,
as it had done it before, and went  into the kit-
chen to light  his pipe, and draw pannel into con-
veisation.  Deceased moaned much as in  distress,
and said in all probability she  would  not see
another day. Duffy said, I wish to God I had
you to bury tomorrow She continued to moan
the whole night ; perceived an uncommon smell
through that night, for which he could not ac-
count ; it was a burnt like smell-went to work
next morning at five—gave deceased a drink of
water, at her request , as he passed out — saw her
in bed where he resumed at nine to breakfast—
and at two saw her on a seat  by the fire with her
shift on, and petticoat  loose on her shoulders.—
She called me, and said  Saunders. will you be so
good as go and make  application to get me into
the Infirmary ? I asked her, what's wrong now ?
She said, my pain is so sore—and said  she must
show me her body. She 'ted up her shift and
shewed her body ; it was in a shocking state;
the skin of the thighs and lower part of the body
Was off and  all rawflesh; she  then turned round
and shewed me her back; her  loins and poste-
riors were in the same state I asked her how
this had happened ? she said George had  given

her a beating —had torn up her clothes, and put
her on the fire. George was in bed; went and
pushed him to waken him, and said what's this
you have done—you have settled her now—she's
terribly burnt—she's roasted ? He said, swear-
ing, she's not half roasted ; she has taken a half
crown from my pocket, and this is the rent day.
She said now God will reward you, George. I
asked him to get a Doctor, and have her wounds
dressed. He said he had no money; asked him
to get some ointment and dress it himself, but he
did not. He never denied roasting her. I went
to work, and told him, that if he did not have
her dressed before an hour, I would report her
to the infirmary and hint to the Police—picked
same parts of cinder from the lower parts of her
body—applied to have her to the Infirmary, and
w is successful—helped her—she took half an
hour—might have gone in two minutes but from
her weakness.

This statement was borne out in all its parts
by Mrs. Gollan, Dr. Stirling, the Nurse, Clerk,
and Surgeon of the Infirmary, and many other
witnesses. The prisoner was unanimously found
Guilty, and after an impressive address from the 
Lord Justice Clerk, who characterised this crime
as the most atrocious case of brutal cruelty and
savage  barbarity that had ever come under his
observation, sentenced him to be Executed on
the 7th November, between the hours of 2 and
4, and his body buried within the precincts of 
the jail.

Agreeably to this sentence, the prisoner was
brought  to the scaffold at the hour appointed,
attended  by the Clergy of the   persuasion   he
belonged to, and after spending a short time in
prayer on  the fatal drop, it fell   and in a few
moments he became a lifeiess corpse.    After the
body had been suspended the usual time, it was
cut down and conveyed back to the jail, for the
purpose of being buried within its precincts, in
terms of the new Act.

Since his conviction, he conducted himself in
a manner becoming his awful situation, and the
horrid  nature of the crime he had to atone for.—
He was very penitent and resigned, and ascribes
all his past misconduct to the effects arising from
intemperance, which made him callous to every
feeling of humanity—caused him to ill-use and
cruelly beat his wife—and at lengtn led him to
commit that horrid crime which the laws of his
country could visit with no other punishment
than death.

He professed to believe in the tenets of the
Church of Rome, (though in practice, as well as
persons of all sects), he grossly perverted them.
He was assisted in his religious exercises by the
Reverend Bishop Scott, the Rev: Mr. Murdoch.
&c. to whose in-cructions and admonitions he
listened with the utmostattention and eagerness;

He originally belonged to a place called Green
Castle in Ireland, but has been residing in this
country these number of  years, and has lived a
considerable time in Drygate Street, the place  
where the murder was perpetrated. He was a
man of low stature, about 45 years of age, and
his employment was cleaning of closses and emp-
tving of dungsteads, or any other out-door work.
He has left a daughter about 14 years old.

A crime, perpetrated with such horrid bruta-
lity, has seldom been recorded, and we trust will
never occur again. It ought to  be a warning to
drunkards to person of hasty passion, and to
old and young—for all need advice. 

Wm, Carse , Printer, Glasgow.Execution

AND

Confession

An acconnt of the Execution of David
Dobie and John Thomson, at Edinburgh,
on Wednesday the 18th August, 1830,
with an account of their behaviour in
Jail and on the scaffold.

		Wednesday, Aug. 18, 1830.
Shortly after seven o'clock this morning, the Magis-
trates attended by their officers, were admitted to the
Lock-up-house, where they found the two unfortunate
men in eager conversation with the clergymen, who
have since their condemnation, been almost their con-
stant visitors. Lheir minds seemed to be more settled
at this awful moment than what they were a few days
previous; this, we judge, was owing to the state in
which they were thrown in taking their last farewell
of their relations, who were admitted to see them.
Scenes such as these we may picture to ourselves, but
it is impossible to give a description; —the parting of
Dobie with his wife and children was truly heart-
rending, and for a moment we forgot the brutality of
his crime in pity for the agouizing feelings of the un-
happy wife.

After their sentence, both of the criminals, although
sullen and quite, did not seem to be aware of the pro-
priety of applying themselves to the only fount from
whence hope and consolation was now to be derived,
and when spoken to on this head shewed the greatest
antipathy and ignorance on the subject. It was
thought adviseable, for more effectually impressing
their awful apd lost state on their minds, to separate
them, so that the one's attention could not be led away
by the discourse of the other;—this had the desired
effect, for both, from the, solitude of their condition,
txrned their thaughts inward, and the clergymen
afterwards found them both ready and willing to hear
and converse on tee means that was to prepare them
for their awful end, and their souls' welfare in the
world to come.

When any person spoke of the barbarous cruelty of
the deed which they committed, a shudder was observ-
ed to come over them, and th y more than once re-
peated, that being in a state of dismal intoxication
they were sensible afterwards of ill-using the woman
but to the brutal extent afterwards proved, they had
no recollection of. Alas! what a warning for drunk-
ards, Men to swallow a drug that brings them far be-
loG the most savage of the brute creation.

About 8 o'clock after a long conference with the
clergymen, and path tic prayers offered up for them,
the executioner made his appearance and commenced
pinioning the arms of both criminals. Lhey then left
the Lock-up-house, guarded by the town officers, and
a strong body of police. On the road to the scaffold,
and fora minute after asceneing, Dobie seemed as if
he was anxious to recognise some person, Lhe crowd
was immense, not a point from whence the scaffold
could be seen but what was taken up. After prayers
being put up, and a psalm sung, they mounted the drop,
and the executioner immediately adjusted the ropes;
they for a moment firmly grasped each others hand,
aud immediately after the signal was given, and they
were launched into eternity. 

Dobbie was 28 years of age, and Thomson about 22.
both natives of Gilmerton, and from their being in the
habit of supplying the inhabitants with coals in small
quantities, were generally known in Edinburgh.
Dobbie. in being conveyed from the Calton hill Jail
last night about 5 o'clock, appeared not the least
moved, and mentioned the names of various persons he
saw from the Coach windows, in a kind of jocular
manner.

Dobbie  hod a  long conversation with .Dr Lee on the
scaftold, and drunk twice a little cold water.EXECUTION

AT

ELGIN.    

An account of the Execution of ALEXANDER GILLAN, who  was executed at Speyside,
(the Place where the deed was committed) on Wednesday the 14th of November, 1810,
for ravishing and murdering Elizabeth Lamb—his body being afterwards hung in Chains,
pursuant to his sentence.

IT is almost impossible to describe the great
bustle which took place on the day appoint-
ed for the execution of this unhappy man, by
people of every age and sex pouring in from all
quarters, to witness his melancholy exit; but
every thing was so judiciously arranged that no
accident whatever happened, cither on the road
or at the fatal spot.

He was escorted to the place of execution by
a party of the 78th Regiment, from Fort
George, attended by the Reverend Mr. Gor-
don, of Elgin, and Mr M'Bean, of Alves,
Sir George Abercrombie, the Sheriff Depute,
the Provost and Magistrates of Elgin, several
of the county Gentlemen, and an immense
concourse of people, from every quarter, and
of every age and sex.

During the time Mr. Gordon delivered a
very impressive prayer, the criminal was con-
vulsed with the most agonizing throbs of
grief. For some time past, he has exhibited
symptoms of the most genuine repeatance,
and has appeared to be deeply impressed with a
sense of the enormity of his guilt, and of the
awful change he was about to undergo.

For this happy temper of mind he was
indebted to the attention of the neighbouring
clergy, but chiefly to the unremitting instruc-
tion and pious exhortation of the Rev. Mr.
Grant, of Eigin, whole benevolent exertions
could not fail of producing the happiest
effects.                                                        

After Mr. Gordon had finished prayer, the
criminal was clevated on a cart, from whence
he attempted to address the spectators, from a
paper which he held in his hand, and had pre-
pared for the occasion, but his agitation of
mind rendered him unable to proceed, and it

was given to Mr. McBean, but proved to be
only some extracts from the religious publica-
tions he had read during hit consinement.

After this, he became more tranquil, ascend-
ed the ladder without hesitation, and awaited
his fate with perfect resignation.

He was detained in this state of awful
suspense too long, by the unskilfulness of the
executioner, whole concern seemed directed
to the perquisites of the office more than the
business in which he was engaged.

When the drop gave way, so great was
the fall, that he yielded his spirit without a
struggle.

Having hung an hour, he was cut down
and put into irons, and he now remains
suspended to his gibbet, a  shocking example
of the dreadful effects of vice, when permit-
ted to usurp the empire of reason; an example
which, it is hoped, will strike deep into the
minds of the rising generation, and tend to
prevent the recurrence of such terrifying
spectacles.

Gillan was a good looking young man, abont
19 years of age, and always behaved himself 

in a becoming manner till the time he commit-
ted the shocking deed for which he so justly
suffered an ignominious death.

 He was a farmer's servant, and bore a good
moral character wherever he was employed.
It was a matter of great astonishment to every
person who was acquainted with bim that he
could be guilty of such dreadful crimes; but
his guilt was proved beyond a doubt, and the
hand of the Almighty was evident in its disco-
very, as was plainly shown upon his trial

T.   DUNCAN,   PRINTER.

Execution at Inverness.

An account of the Execution of Robert Ferguson, at Inerness, on
Friday the 13th of November, 1812 for the Murder of Captain Munro,
late of the 42d regiment of foot-—with an account of his Behaviour,
last Speech and dying Declaration, at the place of execution.

ON Friday the 13 th of November, 1812,
Robert Ferguson was executed at In-
Verness, in pursuance   of his sentence, for
the  Murder of Captain C. Munro, late of
the 42d regiment of foot.

So uncommon a spectacle in that part of
the country, attracted a great concourse of
spectatprs, who appeared deeply affected at
the melancholy occasion.

About one o'clock, the unfortunate man
was taken from the prison, and led to the
place of execution, attended by the Rev.
T. Fraser, and the Rev. D. Martin.

On arriving at the place of execution, af-
ter prayer and praise, in which the prisoner
appeared to join most fervently, he addressed
the surrounding multitude in the Gaelic
language for a considerable time.

He acknowledged himself worthy of death
for the crime he had committed deplored
the sinfulness of his conduct previous to the
unfortunate event which rendered him li-
liable to punishment, lamented the ignor-
ance in which he was educated, and his ne-
glect of moral and religious duties.

He particularly regretted his disregard of
the Sabbath, and his intemperance, which
he said, was the immediate cause of the
murder of Captain Munro.

He then stated,that, since he came to
Inverness, he heard his enemies had report-
ed, and industriously circulated, that he
was guilty of another murder, and that his
wife was accessary to the murder of Captain
Munro—both these charges he solemnly
repelled.

He then made many suitable reflections on
his situation, and stated, that, till some time

after he was confined in Invernesss prison,
he had not access to the Scriptures; that by
the benevolenee of well disposed persons in
Inverness, he was soon taught to read; and
that, ever since, the word of God had been
his only comfort. Ignominious as his death 
appeared, he would, from the consolation
he had experienced, meet it without dread.

He believed that his condemnation was,
in the hands of Providence, the occasion of
his conversion, and he said he had full as-
surance of the forgiveness of sin, through
the merits of Jesus Christ.

After his exortation he mounted the drop
without the least intimidation, and, after
delivering a most impressive prayer, he was
launched into eternity without a struggle.

Throughout the whole of this awful scene
the unfortunate man displayed the most he-
roic firmness and Christian resignation, and
spoke with a clearness and consistency that
astonished all who heard him.

The body, having hung the usual time,
was carried back to the prison, and given
over for dissection, in terms of his sentence.

The crime for which this unfortunate
man suffered was committed on the 2d of
June last, in the smithy of George Thomson.
Robert Ferguson used some unbecoming
language to Captain Munro, who pushed
him out of the shop. Ferguson got into
a violent passion, and soon returned, armed
with a large knife, with which he run at
the Captain, who had only a switch in his
hand to defend himself. Ferguson, how-
ever, soon closed with him, and gave the
Captain a mortal wound in the left side of
the cavity of the belly, which occasioned his
death the day following.

Printed by Thomas Duncan, 159, Saltmarket.EXECUTION

OF THE GILMERTON

MURDERERS,

DOBIE AND THOMSON.

A Full, True, and Particular Account of the
Execution of David Dobie and John Thom-
son, for the Murder and Robbery of Mar-
garet Paterson, near Gilmerton, on the
night of Saturday the l7th of April, 1880,
and who, in pursuance of the Sentence of
the High Court of Justiciary, were hanged
at the head of Libberton's Wynd, Edin-
burgh, on the morning of Wednesday the
18th August, 1830, and their bodies after-
wards given to Dr Monro, for public dissec-
tion.

The Execution of these two unfortunate
men took place this morning, Wednesday the
18th August, on the scaffold erected for the
purpose, at the head of Libberton's Wynd.

The enormous, unheard of Crime of which
the unhappy culprits were convicted, is set
forth, in so far as due regard to public decen-
cy permits, in the following abstract of the
Indictment on which the prisoners were
tried and found guilty : —

That albeit, by the laws of this and every
other well governed realm, Rape; as also As
sault, more especially when committed with
intent to Ravish ; as also Murder ; as also
Robbery ; are crimes of an heinous nature, and
severely punishable : yet true it is and of ve-
rity, that you the said John Thomson and
David Dobie did, both and each, time afore
said, at or near the part of the road, &c. &c,
wickedly and feloniously attack and assault
the said Margaret Paterson, and did strike her
several severe blows with your fists, and kick
her on the head and sides, and other parts of
her body, whereby she was rendered insensi-
ble, and did—[Here again the words of the
indictment are unfit for publication. They
describe particularly the soul harrowing atro-
cities of the monsters, in forcing into the bo
dy of their already brutally maltreated and
insensible victim, three rough cornered pieces
of stone a number of small pieces of coal, a
quantity of coal dust, a quantity of hay, and
the bone of the corsets of the deceased !!!
or some other instrument unknown. And
having mentioned the dreadful lacerations and
wounds thus produced, the indictment went
on]— Of the injuries so inflicted, or of one or
other of them, the said deceased Margaret
Paterson languished till her death : LIKEAS
the said John Thomson and David Dobie did,
both and each, or one or other of you, time
aforesaid, &c. &c., wickedly and feloniously
rob the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and
did take from her by force and violence, a
small tin box, two pawn tickets for gowns,
one pledged for 8s. 6d. and the other for 4s,
the more particular description of the said
pawn tickets being to the prosecutor unknown,
8s. 6d. or thereby in silver money, a key, a
checked cotton or muslin handkerchief, a
green shawl, a coarse towel, some pieces of
card or pasteboard, and some pieces of bread
and meat being all the property or in the
lawful possession of the said deceased Marga-
ret Paterson.



The behaviour of the Prisoners in jail, since
their condemnation, has been generally peni-
tent and  resigned. The following letter, said
to have been written by Dobie to his wife,
breathes a  spirit perfectly becoming a man in
his  awful situation.

"Dear Wife- I write these lines to you,
hoping you may receive some consolation from
them. This is the only comfort that I can be-
stow, to let you know the state of my mind ;
although my guilt does stare me in the face,
I trust God will be merciful to me a humble
penitent; although my hands are stained with
the blood of the innocent, I trust the blood of
Christ will wash me from all my guilt.

" I am quite resigned to my fate; I forgive
all mine enemies, and I trust they will also
forgive me ; I die in peace with all men. You
will not have the melancholy satisfaction of
laying my body in the dust; but I beg as a
last request that you do not grieve on that
account, as these dry bones may yet live to
future glory, where man cannot scatter.
Shew this letter to the aged father of Mar-
garet Paterson, whose hoary head we have
brought with sorrow to the grave. We sin-
cerely implore his forgivenness, which is a
poor consolation for the loss of a daughter he
held so dear, which, by our wicked hearts has
left him to bewail the loss of a child, and you
a faithless husband.

" Give my last respects to all my friends
and comrades, and to the grace of God I leave
them and you for ever.—Farewell."

The Prisoners were brought over from the
Calton Jail to the Lock-up house, exactly at
a quarter past five o'clock last night. They
were dressed in shabby blue coats, the same
as they wore during their trial, and they
looked very dejected, and pale,—the colour
having forsaken the cheeks even of Dobie.

During the night, the unhappy men spent
a considerable time in devotion, and they ex-
pressed themselves to be as resigned to their
fate, as they were apparently penitent.

At the usual hour of eight o'clock in the
morning, the dismal procession  moved from
the Lock up-house to the Scaffold.

SECOND EDITION.

Further Particulars of their behaviour on
the Scaffold.

The Rev. Dr Lee gave out the 40th Psalm,
in which both Dobie and Thomson joined
with firm and clear voices. Thomson was the
image of perfect resignation—composed, tran-
quil, and seemingly even satisfied. Dobie was
as usual restless, and looked frequently round
him at the people. He had recovered his colour
since last night.

After the Psalm was sung, the Rev. Dr Lee
made a long and impressive prayer, fervently
imploring the divine blessing and mercy on
the assembled multitude, and more especially
on the unhappy culprits whose lives were for-
feited to the outraged laws of their country.
Some parts of the Reverend Doctor's prayer
fixed Dobie's attention, in spite of his restless-
ness.

After the conclusion of the prayer, the
wretched men were placed on the drop, The
rope was first adjusted round the neck of
Thomson, who immediately began to pray
fervently in a loud distinct voice. He was
evidently wholly engrossed in devotion.
Dobie continued to talk earnestly and with
his usual restlessness to those around him for
some time.

When the rope was at length put round
Dobie's neck,—he also began to pray loudly
and fervently, many times repeating, ' O,
Lord, have mercy on our souls !' and trembl-
ing just before this, he had asked for and
drunk about half a tumbler of water.

At length, he cried out to Thomson, ' Are
you ready '—' Yes,' was the answer, as soon
as Thomson was sufficiently roused from the
abstraction of his devotion to hear him. They
then cordially shook hands with one another,
and Dobie, who held the signal, threw it
down, and they were launched into eternity
a little before half past eight o'clock.
Both the wretched men struggled for about
four minutes.

There was an immense concourse of specta-
tors

After hanging the usual time, the bodies of
the malefactors were cut down, to be deliver-
ed for dissection, in pursuance of their sen-
tence.

FORBES and OWEN, Printers, 115 High Street.An account of the Execution of that Horrid Villain JOHN THOMAS, Who
was. Hanged in front of York prison, on Tuesday the 16th of
January 1822, for the inhuman, murder of Margaret Thomson, a far-
mer's, wife, and of Mary Harris, a girl of eleven years of age:—Also,
his Dying Speech at the place of execution.

ON Tuesday the 16th of January, 1822,
John Thomas was executed at Whitehaven,
for repeated acts of cruelty and murder.

The crimes for which this depraved wretch
suffered were attended with circumstances of
uncommon barbarity; and, had they not been
acknowledged by himself, when on the brink
of eternity, it would not be credited that a man
so devoid of feeling, so totally savage in his.
mind, could be found in a civilized country.

The murders for which he was tried and
condemned, were well known to the public
some time ago; and which coupled with the
discoveries he made after his condemnation,
had a powerful effect in exciting a general;
curoisity to see the perpetrator of so many at-
rocious and most inhuman offences—of course,
the number of spectators assembled at the
place of execution, was greatly beyond what
has been observed on an ordinary occasion.

Although this wretched man must have been
extremely hardened while leading his career of
unexampled wickedness, he at last, through
the unwearied endeavours of several pious and
worthy gentlemen who attended him after his
condemnation, became sensible of the magni-
tude of his iniquities, declared his sorrow for
the crimes be had committed, expressed hopes
of forgiveness from Almighty God, and died
very penitently. 

One of the murders for.which he was exe-
cuted was that of Margaret Thomson, an old
woman, and the wife of a respectable farmer.
Thomas, entered the house when the unfortun-
ate woman was alone; and she being then en-
gaged in some domestic concern, with her
back towards the door (which had been open
for some time previous) did not immediately
perceive him. Of this circumstance the villain
took a fatal advantage; he came softly behind
the poor woman, and knocked her down by a
blow on the head from a bill-hook, after which
he dispatched her by repeated blows, giving
her several dreadful wounds. As. soon as he
perceived she was dead, he searched her pock.
ets, took out her keys, and went up stairs, where
he unlocked a chest of drawers, took out a suit
of her husband's clothes, in which he deliber-
ately dressed himself, leaving his own, covered
with the blood of the murdered woman, in their
place and then quietly walked away!

After this bloody transaction, he proceeded
towards Dodsbrooke. In the evening he met
a girl, about eleven years of age, on the road.
He inquired if she could shew him the way to
the next village, and, at the same time pro-
mised ber a penny if she would accompany him,

as he was afraid he would miss the proper road,
day-light being nearly withdrawn

The unsuspecting child, whose name was
Mary Harris, and who belonged to one of the
villages, complied with the monster's request,
and went with him toward next village.

They had  not proceeeded [   ] on the road,
when he suddenly se[               ]celess guide,,
and dragged her int[                ]ng enclosure,
where he attempted [            ]; her   erson; but,
owing to the resistan[            ]made, he did not
accomplish his purpose.

Finding himself disappointed in the first part
of his designs, he immediately proceed to
the perpetration of the second, and  which,
perhaps, for disgracefulness and blood thirsty
cruelty, was never exceeded by the- most pro-
 fligate villain.

He searched about till he procured a heavy
stick, with which he returned to his already ex-
hausted victim and literally beat out her brainst!
It being now quite dark, he acknowledged that,
he ascertained the fact of having beat her head
in pieces by feeling it over with his hand.

He then proceeded to strip the body, which
he disengaged of every article of clothing, tak-
ing off the very shirt, and tied all up in his
handkerchief He proceeded to a neighbour-
ing pool of water to wash himself, and disco-.
vering that the unfortunate girl's shirt was
greatly stained with blood, he threw it into a
hedge, and left it behind him. he was soon
after apprehended; a reward of two hundred
guineas being offered for his apprehension,
when he confessed the above, and several other
shocking murders.

His Dying Speech at the Place of Execution.
Good people, you are come to see my shame-
ful and untimely end, which, I confess, has de-
servedly fallen upon me, as the just judgment,
of the righteous of all the earth for the deepest
crimes; I beseech you to take warning by my
fall; beware of the subtile ways of the enemy of
our souls, going always about like a roaring
lion seeking whom he may devour. In my in-
fant years, not regarding God's holy words,
but wilfully breaking the Sabbath, I delighted
more to be at the alehouse with bad company,
than at the church. I becoming totally de-
praved, I committed the horrid murders for
which my heart now bleeds within me. I ear-nestly
nestly entreat all young persons to avoid Sab-
bath-breaking, drunkenness, and disobedience
to their parents, and to beware of lustful  desires
and the company of lewd women, who will
betray them to ruin.

Printed by John Muir.EXECUTION

A Particular Account of the Execution, and last Dying
Declaration and Behaviour, of ROBERT SCOTT,
who was Executed, on   that part of the Road be- 
tween Earlston and Greenlaw, where he commit-
ted the Bloody deeds, yesterday, Wednesday the
29th October, 1823, for the Horrid and Barbarous

Murder of Two men on the evening of the 30th
 June last, and his Body sent to Edin for Dissotion



THIS unfortunate and infatuated victim of passion and crime,
     ROBERT SCOTT, it will be remembered, was tried before
the Circuit Court of Justiciary, at Jedburgh, on the  16th of Sep-
tember last, for the Barbarous Murder of James Aitcheson and Ro-
ber Simm, both of Greenlaw,  and otherwise horribly mutilating
their Bodies, in a shocking manner, on their return from Earlston
fair, where they had had some frivolous quarrel, on the evening of
the 30th of June last.  He was unanimously found Guilty, and
sentenced to be executed, as near the spot where he committed the
murders as should be found convenient, on  Wednesday the 29th
of October, and his body to be afterwards delivered to Dr Monro,
of Edinburgh, for Dissection.    During the whole trial, Scott beha-
ved with, great self-possession, and continued perfectly calm and
composed, even after the fatal verdict was returned.

We have been informed, from a quarter on which every reliance
may be placed, that, since his condemnation, this unfortunate man
conducted himself with very great propriety,     He had made full
and ample confession, and acknowledged the justice of his sentences
He had an extensive knowledge of the Scriptures, and attended, with
great apparent seriousness, to the admonitions and devotions of the
 ministers of religion, all of whom, belonging to Jedburgh, had
 shewn the most anxious attention to his spiritual welfare.

A very strong and ponderous Gallows was made in Edinburgh
which was sent out on two double carts, and erected on the very
spot where the murders were committed, a few days before the ex-
ecution. On the morning of Wednesday last, pursuant to.his sen-
tence, Scott was taken from the Cast1e of Jedburgh, and placed on a
cart, with his back to the horse's tail, and the executioner facing
him. The Sheriff of Roxburghshire, attended by his officers, and
a strong party of the Yeomanry Cavalay of the county, escortedt he
melancholy procession to the limits of the shire, where the unhap-   
py man was delivered over to the Sheriff of Berwickshire, who was
similarly attended, and who conducted himself to the fatal tree
which was not a stone above cast from his own house.

  Soon after appearing on the Scaffold,  a pslam was sung, in which
Scott willingly  joined, and then a most appropriate prayer was put
up on his behalf, by one of the Clergy men who had so kindly attend-
ed him. He afterwards stepped forward to the railing, and, in a most
earnest and impressive manner, addressed the numerous multitude
of spectators assembled round, the scaffold, in a short speech  in
which, among other things, he solemnly besought them not to al-
low their passions, at any time, to get the better of their reason,
nor, to indulge themselves, on any account whatever, in drinking
ardent spirits to excess, which always inflamed the passions, and
rendered them uncontroulable ; a sad example of the effects of vio-
lent and ungovernable passion, he said was now before them, in the
melancholy case of him who now, for the last time, addressed them.
He concluded, by hoping that none who now heard him would e-
ver be so cruel as cast up to any of his innocent children his crimes
or his shameful end.  He then shook hands with some around   
him, and bowed to others, when  immediately mounted the fatal 
drop; and, while the executioner was adjusting, the rope round the
beam, he was most earnest in private prayer,with his hands clasp-
ed.    In a few. minutes he dropped the signal, and was instantly
 launched into eternity a little after 3 o'clock    After hanging about
 thirty-five minutes, the body was cut down, placed in the cart,
covered with a sheet, and sent into Edinburgh, for Dissection.

       Robert Scott was a tall athletic strong man, apparently about 44
 or 45 years of age  and left a wife and five children to deplore his

 loss.            .                            -------------                             .

  Edinburgh....Printed for William Johnston..........Price One Penny.EXECUTION.

A Full and True Account of the Last Speech and Dying Declaration
of WILLIAM BURKE, who was Executed at Edinburgh this morn-
ing, for Murder, and his body given for dissection ; also of his
conduct and behaviour since his condemnation, and on the

Scaffold.
                                           Edinburgh, 28th January, 1829.

About nine o'clock this morning, WILLIAM  BURKE, the wretched
miscreant, who had occupied so much of public attention since his
condemnation, on account of the unheard of atrocities disclosed at
his trial, suffered the penalty of the law due for the commission of
such barbarous and enormous crimes, at the head of Libberton
Wynd, Lawnmarket, in the presence of an immense multitude of
spectators, many of whom came from a great distance.

The indictment charged Burke and M' Dougal, his reputed wife,
but to whom he was not married, with three different acts of deli-
berate murder, between the 7th April, and 31st October last, viz.....
Mary Paterson or Mitchell, James Wilson, alias Daft Jamie, and
Marjory Campbell or Docherty. The trial then proceeded for the
murder of Docherty only, to which they both pied not Guilty.
William Hare and Margaret Laird, his wife, accomplices in the
murders, were admitted King's evidence.

After a long and very interesting trial, which lasted nearly
twenty four hours, and which excited the strongest sensations of
horror and disgust in the minds of all present, the jury' found
William Burke Guilty, and the libel not proven against M' Dougal ;
upon hearing this, Burke turned round to his paramour, and coolly
exclaimed, " Nelly, your are out of the scrape." After a few obser-
vatioas by Lord  Meadowbank, in which Lord M' Kenzie concur-
red, the Lord Justice Clerk addressed Burke, in a most impressive
manner, setting forth in the strongest language, the enormity of the
crime of which he was now convicted ; " a crime, more atrocious,
a more cold-blooded, deliberate, and systematic preparation for
murder, and the motives so paltry, (said his Lordship,) was really
unexampled in the annals of the country," and assuring him that
his sentence would most positively be carried into execution; and
solemnly warning him to prepare his mind in the most suitable
manner to appear before the Throne of Almighty God to answer
for his crimes. He was then sentenced to be executed on Wednes-
day morning, the 28th January, 1829, between the hours of eight
and ten o'clock, and his body to be given for dissection.

Since  his condemnation this unhappy man was perfectly peni-
tent and resigned to his fate.    He never deluded himself with any
hopes of escape or of mercy ; and accordingly, he   immediately
prepared himself for confession and for receiving absolution, by a
perusal of such  books  as  his   spiritual  guides had   put  into-his
hands, and by listening with the most devout attention to their re-
ligious instructions.    He fully acknowledged the justice of his sen-
tence ; nay,  he considered  it in  some measure as a blessing, the
certainty of his approaching fare having brought back his mind to
a true sense of religion, from which it had been long estranged, and
he wished to die at peace with all men.   He made a full confession
of all the murders he was guilty of, condescending on no less than
sixteen persons, beginning with Old Abigail Simpson, from Loan-
head, and ending with Marjory Campbell or Docherty, and all with-
in the short space of nine months ; mentioning their names, sex, and
age, in so far as he knew them, and the dates at which they were
dispatched, which was generally by suffocation, as well as to whom
sold, and the price received for the bodies.    He said they all made
very little resistance, being generally, if not always, very much in-
toxicated with spirits.    What induced him to commence this hor-
rible traffic in blood, was, he  said,  Hare and him having received
L. 7, 10s. for the body of an old  Pensioner who died in Hare's
house, and which,  at Hare's suggestion, they took to Surgeons
Square,

Accordingly, about eight this morning, he was waited upon by the officiating
Magistrates at the Lock-up-house, where he had previously been brought from Jail,
and soon after proceeded to the scaffold up Libberton Wynd, attended by two
Catholic Clergymen. After some time spent in prayer kneeling, he mounted the
fatal drop, (after shaking hands with those around him,) the rope being then adjust-
ed, and the cap drawn over his face, he in a few moments gave the signal, and was
instantly launched into eternity. After hanging the usual time he was cut down,
and sent to the College for dissection.

PRICE ONE PENNY.EXECUTION.

A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of
WILLIAM THOMSON, Labourer, who was Executed
this day, Thursday, 1st March 1827, at Dalkeith,
for Highway Robbery; together with his Beha-
vour since his condemnation, and at the place of
Execution, as also his Last Words on the Scaffold.

THIS unfortunate young man was condemned before the High
Court of Justiciary, on Monday the 22d January last, along
with his brother, James Thomson, and John Fram, (but who were
recommended to mercy by the Jury, and have since been respited
during his Majesty's pleasure,) for attacking and assaulting George
Dickson, farmer in Cousland, on the evening of the 30th November
 last, near the foot of Langside IBrae, in the parish of Dalkeith, to
the great effusion of his blood, and robbing him of a silver hunting
watch, and other articles. They were unanimously found Guilty,
and heard the awful sentence of death pronounced unmoved Wil-
liam Thomson pertly ejaculating to the Lord Justice Clerk, " Thank
you, my Lord."

These men were very hardened at the time of their trial, but as
William Thomson never entertained any hopes of pardon, conse-
quently he was soon induced to make up his mind to his awful
situation. Mr Porteous, the chaplain of the Jail, has been most assi-
duous in his attentions to this unhappy man, as well as several
other ministers of this city. He felt bitterly, for a short time, when
his brother and Fram got the respite, but soon recovered his usual
composure. He latterly became very penitent, and rergretted exceed-
ingly the life he formerly led. He was often heard to cry, " Oh !
if I had my life to begin again, it would not be spent as formerly/'
On Wednesday he took a last farewell of his wife, and several other
friends, which was a most heart-rending scene, we have heard, to
those who witnessed it. He likewise took leave of James Thomson,
his brother, and of John Fram, in an aff/?/ctionate manner.

Accordingly, this day, Thursday the 1st March 1827, in pur-
suance of his Sentence, William Thomson was put into a hackney
coach at the Calton Jail, attended by the Sheriff and his Officers, in
several other carriages, and drove off for Dalkeith, after 12 o'clock.
After resting there for a few hours, during which a psalm was sung,
and a fervent prayer offered up to the throne of grace on his behalf,
his arms were pinioned, and was led out to the scaffold, which was
erected on the main street of Dalkeith, where another psalm was
sung, and another prayer put up for him. He then turned to the
multitude, and spoke a few words in an audible distinct manner,
bewailing his own awful fate, and beseeching them to take warning
from his disgraceful and shameful end. All this while the Execu-
tioner was adjusting the apparatus of death. The pannel then shook
hands with his friends, and with all the official gentlemen around
him, returning them his sincere thanke for their attention, and for
their kind indulgence since his confinement. He then mounted
the fatal drop, and while the Executioner was untying his handker-
chief, fixing the rope, and drawing the cap over his head, he was
observed to be engaged in most fervent prayer. All things being
adjusted, and the unfortunate man left on the fatal drop, with in-
structions how to act, in a very few minutes he dropped the signal,
and was launched into eternity, admidst a vast multitude of specta-
tors, there being no execution in Dalkeith, within the memory of
any living man.

After hanging for half an hour, the body was cut down, and de-
livered to his friends for interment, a few minutes before 4 o'clock.

Printed for WILLIAM HENRY.


LAST WORDS AND DYING DECLARATION
OF JOCK  HEIGH THE HANGMAN.

Just Published, the Last Speech, Confession and Dying Declaration
of JOCK HEIGH, the Hangman ; also an Account of his Strange
an Singular Behaviour on the Scaffold, on Monday morning, at the
Execution of James Bell, with some just Remarks   on that Shameful
occasion.            

The   greater part   of our
townsfolk  will  recollect   of
the late finisher of the LAW,
who went under the name of
Jock Heigh.   This indispen
sable functionary,   who  was
a complete eccentric,. is said
to have   gloried  in  his not
very enviable profession, and
on his death   bed he had the
happy  consolation  of  never
having bungled a job during
his long practise.     T he fol-
lowing extract from the Ob-
server   Newspaper     on   the
conduct of the present  Ex-
ecutioner,  speaks   the  mind
of almost every one who wit-
nessed the horrid   scene of
Monday last-

When the prisoner was
getting his arms pinioned the
executioner gave a sample of
that inefficiency, that was
afterwards like to have been
attended with disagreeable
consequences he cried like
a child, and made one or two
abortive attempts before he
could accomplish the task.

Whither this irresolution or
incapacity proceeded from a
want of nerve, or from an
 over quantity of stimulants
we cannot say. When the
culprit was on the scaffold 
he made one or two very
awkward attempts to adjust
 the rope. but not hitting the
length, he tried to rectify the
mistake but he Was equally
unsuccessful This bungling
so exasperated the spectators
that the result was like to be
similar to that of Johnston
In 1819, had not a gentle
man pushed  him aside, and
tied  the  rope  with  his  own
hand, This course  of bung-
ling did not terminate here,
for when the culprit jerked
aside the fatal signal with
 which the drop should have
 sumultaneously  given way. a
 few, moments  of dreadful suspense
occuried, during   which   time the
 miserable victim shook terribly,
This   was the first performance  of
   his functionary  in  Edinburgh, &
 we trust it   will be the last,

 Mardon Laws Milne and James
 Watters. convicted    of   stealing a
 Silk  handkerchief from a green in
  park   Place ; also of breaking into
 house  in  George  Street.
  Milne was   sentenced to 7 years
 and Watters   14  years punishment.
 Daniel  Haunan,shoemaker, was
convicted of breaking into a house
In Carnegie street and stealing
 from    a drawer, three Sovereigns,
two guinea  and  eight one pound
Notes, the    property    of   Daniel.
Fraser, residing  there.

Sentenced to 7 years transport.
ation.

John Good  convicted of breaking
into the shop of Mr Burke, broker,
 and stealing some articles of wear
ing apparel.

Sentenced to 7 year transport-
ation.

Jean Forbes pled guilty to a charge
of vending a counterfeit coin, and
and was sentenced to transportation
for   7 years.

Walter Glover and David Adams,
Both of   notorious  bad character.
were   convicted   entering   a   house
a Ferniebank, and stealing a shirt
and 5 yards cloth,

Both prisoners sentenced to 14
years transportation.

Thomas   Alexander, a    boy  18
years of age,   was   charged  with 2
different acts viz —with breaking
into the house of Lady Gordon, at
Gordonton. and afterwards setting
fire to the premises.

Sentenced  to 7 years transportation
John Ferguson belonging to Alloa,
was  charged   with   the murder of
of Andrew  Fl.ckhart,  Flesher,   by
stabbing   him  on   the   left breast
with a knife or some   other   sharp
instrument,   on the road   leading
from Tullibody  to Alloa,  on the
night of the 22d April.

It appeared by the evindence that
as the deceased was carrying some
sharp   instruements    required   in
in  business; had fallen when one
of the knives   entered his   breast,
Verdeict not guilty


WALLAM REID  Printer ,EDINBURGHT H E   S E C O N D                   



S    P    E    E    C    H       1 8

Being an account of the behaviour of James Day, in prison and on
the Scaffold,  on Wednesday the 20th of October 1790.

                                                                                           

THE Night before the execution of James Day, he was attended by Mess. Archibald,
Neilson, and two Divines, when the whole night was spent in singing of psalms, and
prayer, and exhorting him to fly from the wrath to come, and to the Lord Jesus Christ, in-
structing him in the knowledge of Christ, and the way of salvation, and righteousness; when
he made a large confession of the sins of his nature, heart, and life, and took his turn in pray-
er with them that were present, when the scaffolding was putting up, his mind was crowded
with terror and confusion, which appeared in his countenance, when he cried out, O! to be
sprinkled with the blood of Christ, which only can cleanse me from my sin. Then he was
desired to go about prayer, which he did accordingly, after which he was more composed in
his mind.    At two o'clock, he was taken out of the iron room, to the town-hall drest in
his dead cloaths, and a white gown down to his feet, mounted with black, attended by the
Revd. Messrs. Balsour and Bell, and Mr. Neilson, on whom he lerned down the stairs to the
Hall, when he sung a part of the sixty-second Psalm 5, 6, 7, verses, after which he prayed,
and then Messrs. Balsour and Bell, questioned him concerning the murder of his Child, which
he denied, that ever he embrued his hands in his blood, but owned he was a mean of his
death, and was willing to suffer for it.    After which Messrs, Balsour and Bell gave him suit-
ble exhortations,when the lord Provost, asked him if he had any thing further to say, as
the time was drawing on, to which he answered, No! when Mr. Bell prayed, he then took
farewall of the ministers, and came away to the scaffold , accordingly, then he desired Mr.
Neilson to pray, which was done with great servency, when a part of the 24 Psalm was
sung from the 7th verse to the end. then he prayed himself, after which he turned to the
spectators desiring them, to observe the ten commandments, and went through them one by
one, observing that there might be some among such a great multitude, who are living in sin,
as he had, and prayed them to take warning.

After which one of the Magistrates, asked him if he had any family or friends, that the
Magisters of Glasgow, could do any thing for them; he answered, No! but thanked them
kindly, after which he went to the foot of the ladder, and took farewell of Mr. Neilson,
when the tears ran down his cheeks, he then went up the ladder. After the cap being
drawn over his face, and seemingly in a praying posture he appeared to saint, on which the
executioner did his office immediately

On his being cut down, his body was put in a coffin, and laid on a cart, and carried to the
College to be, dissected, and attended by the Magistrates, likewise escorted by a party of the
42d Regiment of foot.                                         

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

  The unfortunate James Day is a woful example of the depravity of human nature, when
further corrupted by the debauched company of loose women.—He had education parts and
abilities to make a figure as a tradesman; but his giving himself up to lust, and doating on
strange women led him astray from the paths of virtue: and, pride, the very sin which made SAtan, A Devil from an Angel of light, perverted his mind.

 No doubt, the confession of a great many particular sins has no tendency to reform man-
kind: it rather leads poor mortals to a vain conceit of themselves, and the guilty, to palliate
their own sins, by thinking them of an inferior fort to the black catalogue they read of  or
see before them. In this case, let every one consider, that it is only the over ruling band of
Providence which keeps FALLEN  MAN from running into the most wicked, base and degener-
ate courses.                                                                                                           

 The man, or woman, who indulge themselves in licentious amours, will undoubtedly feel a
sting in their conscience, which no salve can cure: witness this man, who says, in his own
hand writing, that he never had a heart love for this Adulterous Child, As a bird of a bad
nest.                                                                                                                

During his confinement and under sentence, he behaved with the greatest  fortitude con-
versed freely and acted as composed, as conscious innocence could do: Yet his own account of
his wandering the child leaves a suspicion of his being the actual Murderer.An Account of the last Dying Words and Execution of
MRS. SHUTTLEWORTH, for the Murder of her
Husband, on Friday the 7th of December inst. 1821,
at Montross, near Edinburgh.

THIS day was fixed for the execution of the unfortunate Margaret Tindale, convict-
 ed of the murder of her Husband, Henry Shuttleworth. The appalling apparatus
of death was erected yesterday in front of the gaol—a spectacle never before witnessed in
this place. About the beginning of last week a petition was transmitted to his Majesty,
signed by a number of respectable Gentlemen of the town, praying for a commutation of
punishment, that the feelings of the inhabitants might be spared the horrible exhibition of
a public execution—and that too of a female. An answer was last night received from the
Secretary of State, stating that the case of the prisoner had already received the most mi-
nute investigation of the Privy Council, and that the Petition contained no grounds upon
which his Majesty's advisers could feel themselves warranted to recommend the interposi-
tion of Royal clemency.

Provost Gibson, accompanied by the Rev Dr. Paterson, communicated the result of
the Petition to the unfortunate woman. She heard the tidings which extinguished the last
ray of hope with great composure, and stated that it was nothing but what she expected.
On being visited by her sister the night before her execution, she spoke without any agi-
tation concerning her unhappy situation and the dissection of her body, and reproved her
sister for giving vent to the excess of her feelings. Dr. Patterson remained with her till
about one o'clock of the rooming, assisting her in acts of devotion. After he left her she
retired to bed, slept about two hoars, and was up and dressed by six o'clock.

In the forenoon she was visited by the Rev. Mr. Dodgson, of the English chapel, who
administered the sacrament to her. The constables were summoned to attend in the Town
Hall, at twelve o'clock, from which they proceeded about one o'clock, to the front of the
prison. About a quarter past two the criminal was brought out, attended by the Rev,
Mr, Molleson, Dr. Patterson, and Dr. Dodgson. A part of the 51st Psalm was sung, be-
ginning at the seventh verse, in which a part at the audience joined.

The Rev. Dr. Paterson then delivered a most fervent and impressive prayer, during
which the unfortunate woman kneeled down, and joined with the greatest fervour. At
this time the scene was awful and appalling deyond description. The crimiaal was neatly
dressed in black:, with a White apron, and altogether appeared in a clean and handsome
manner. She now came forward with a firm pace ; and after the executioner had adjust-
ed the rope, she addressed the audience in a strong and audible voice—protesting her in-
nocence of the crime for which she was to suffer, and cautioned the spectators against the
vice of drunkenness, and tha sin of Sabbath-breaking. Her last words were-—"I die in-
nocent—I loved my husband—I love my life—Jesus Christ have mercy on my soul."

About ten minutes before three the drop fell, and she closed her eyes on sublunary ob-
jects without any visible struggle.—After hanging about fifty minutes, the body was tak.
en down, and put into a box, to be sent to Edingburgh for dissection, pursuant to her
sentence.                                                             (MONTROSS REVIEW, December 7, 1821The laft Words and Declaration of Jannet Shank,
Who was Execute in the Grass mercat of E-
dinburgh, upon  the 7 day of February, 1711
for. the Crime of

Child-Murder:

According to Sentence of Justice, her Right Hand was
cut off by the Conmon Hangman; and was drawn
up the Gibbet by a Pilly, and Hang till she was
Dead. Her Hand is to be set up at Dumfriece.

THis   Woman being very Obstinate and hard Hearted, only
confesseth the following.

That she was guilty of Disobedence to her Parents, was

very well   Educated by them, and that she was once a

Seeker of GOD,  but soon fell from Him, and was taken up with

Idle C ompany, and was a Breaker of the LORDS Day.             

That about the Latter end of April, while she was in the Laird of
Laggs Service, .one William Gordon Servant to the Laird of Laggs
Son lay with her, but she did not think she was got with Child, hav-
ing had no Simptons of a Conceprion, for the first Month; But
the next Month thereafter she found sure Grounds to Apprehend she
had Conceaved:

And in the Middle of June being in the Laird of Maxwaltons
Service; and one Day being Washing, got a Hurt upon the Breast,
with a Tub, which she was carrying, which Occasioned a Swelling
and Ulceration, which put her into a Fever, during which, she was so
Constipat, that she had no Passage in her Belly for seven Days,
  whereupon her Lady Desired her Brother who is a Surgean, to give
her some proper Medecin for her Relief; and he having given her
Phisick several times, and Purged Excessively, which made her part
with that Conception about the latter end of July, which was but
three Months as she could Recoken her Conception, of which she was
not very certain, but positively Declines she had no Living Child;
and cannot tell if it was well Formed, neither did she know any
thing of she Dog of Bitches Eating of it.

She likewise when first imprisoned, Denyed her being Guilty of
Fornication, and that day she was Executed she Prayed earnestly she
might be forgiven the Sin of Denyal of Uncleanness; And Declared
her Sentence to be  just, and did the fame upon the Scaffold, but ne-
ver Confessed the Murder.

And since her Sentence offered the Keepers Money to let her
Escape. but they told it to the Ministers, and they would have none
of her Money.

And she Prayed Earnestly upon the Scaffold, the Ministers tak-
ing very much Pains upon her: and they Prayed several times, and
Sung very long: and took her Round the Scaffold; And she earnestly
Desired all Spectators. to take Warning by her.

Edinburgh Printed by fohn Reidin  Bells Wynd.   1711;

An account of the Execution of Charles
M'Ewan at Edinburgh, on Wednesday
the 7th April, for the Murder of Mar.
garet Money, on the Firmonth Hill,
in Aberdeenshire, with his behaviour
in Jail, and at the place of Execution.

Edinburgh, Wednesday, 7th April, 1824.

This morning, pursuant to his sentence, Charles M'Ewan under-
went the last awful sentence of the law, for the inhuman murder
of Margaret Money, with whom he had cohabited as' her husband.

During his trial he seemed quite unaffected, and after being
taken to his cell he was quite sullen. A number of Pious Gen-
tlemen visited him, with the humane intention of endeavouring
to awaken him to a sense of his awful situation. Instead of re-
ceiving them with pleasure, he treated them in the coldest man-
ner, and told them that if he had done the deed it was a matter
of his own and none of theirs. The unhappy man continued in
this state till within a few days back, when he beg-in entertain
feelings better suited to his situation. Lately he had been daly
visited by three Catholic Clergymen with whom much of his
time was cousumed; and to their exhortations must be ascribed
the change in his behaviour He had become more tranquil and
social ; but continued to discover a lamentable ins-nsibility to the
fate which awaited him. When in a talkative mood, he spoke
boastingly of his athletic exploits in the Highlands; and was fe-
miliar with the names of all the English pugilists. He expressed
great anxiety concerning the late of the impending battle betwixt
Spring and Langan ; and a few days ago, after having been shaved
he invited the barber to spar with him, which of course was de-
clined. Once a week he was visited by a near relation residing
in Leith, who had attemped in vain to engage him in some suit-
able conversation. Every attention had been paid to his comfort,
but he seemed to draw his clief temporal solace from a tobacco
pipe, which he was almost continually smoking.

On Tuesday afternoon, at half-past five, the unfortunate man
wat conveyed from the Calton Jail to the Lock-up-house, prepar-
atory to the execution of his sentence. Before leaving this place
of confinement, he was visited by some friends, one of whom, who
has shown him great attention, was with him again this morning

The Scaffold was e'rected, as usual, during the night, and in the
morning a great concourse of people surrounded the fatal spot.

About 10 minutes past eight the prisoner walked with a firm
step to the stage of death, accompanied by the magistrates. and
clergymen of the persuasion to which he adhered. Here he ac-
quiesced in the justness of his sentence, and hoped his fate would
be a Warning to others. The devotional exercises being over, the
drop fell, and the lamp of life was for ever extinguished. His
body was delivered to Dr Monro for dissection.

The unhappy man was a native of Ireland, and his real name
was M'Eoch, but he took the names of Robert M'Leod. John
M'Intyre, Charlos M'Intosh, Charles M'Kay, and Charles M'Ewan
according as circumstances suited, but he was best known by the
latter. He and a number of his relations left Ireland about ten
years back, and travelled in Scotland as tinklers. He pitched upon
the north of Scotland as the best country to carry on his trade.
In the shires of Aberdeen, Inverness, &c. he was soon well known
and to many that lived in remote places, having heard of during
deeds committed by him, his appearance in their cottage would
throw a dampness over them. He was the terror of all the vagrant
travellers in that quarter, and it is said he would help himself at
pleasure to part of their goods if they were at a distance from the
hands of justice. This and his readiness in giving battle to any
that opposed him got him the appelation of " the Cock of the
North." He has lived with various women as man and wife ;
the one he lived longest with, has 3 children. The unfottunate
woman whom he murdered had at that time been only 3 or 4 days
co-habiting with him at that time. After committing the bloody
deed, he became restless, which was observed in the various
houses he sleeped in afterwards.

Edinburgh, Prined for the Booksellers.

Execution

A full and particular account of the Execution of
James Brown,  and John  Craig, who suffered 
the last sentence of the Law in  front of the 
New  Jail   of Paisley,  for   Breaking into the
House of Mr. Robertson at Foxbar, and stealing 
a quantity of Property and ill using the in- 
mates; also an account of their behaviour since 
their trial and at the place of Execution.          

An Execution in Paisley is a circumstance of very rare oc- 
currence, and may consequently be supposed to excite a much 
deeper degree of interest, than in those places where they are 
regularly witnessed from time with little space between. In 
1765, Provan was executed at  Gallowsgreen  of Paisley, for 
the murder of his wife under circumstances of deep and ag-
gravated atrocity; since that time down to the present, a 
period of 64 years, there has been in this town, only one of 
these   melancholy   and   awful  lessons  to   erring  humanity.
This was the final exit of Thomas Potts who was executed at 
the cross, (the former place of execution having been appro- 
priated to other purposes,) in  1797 for housebreaking and 
theft, this man, with an accomplice, were tried for the rob-
bery of Gryffe Castle, in the neighbourhood of Paisley, when 
Potts was found guilty, condemned, and executed, as above 
mentioned, since which the Gallows on which Potts ended his 
career would have remained unemployed, had it not been re- 
quired by the town of Greenock for a similar purpose, from 
whence it has  been removed for the execution of these two 
unfortunate men, James Brown and John Craig, who were 
this day in pursuance of their sentence suffered the awful 
penalty of the law. These two men we understood are na- 
tives of Ireland, but have for some years been  resident in 
Johnstone, when the affair for which they suffer was concoc- 
ted, and which  place they left shortly after its perpetration 
in order to evade the hands of Justice. They were however 
both seized and brought to this country, and tried at the last 
assizes where they were condemded for the crime of break- 
ing into the house of Mr. Robertson of Foxbar. On  trial 
it appeared that these two unfortunate men along with a per- 
son of the name of Stewart (who was outlawed on the day of 
trial,) had forcibly obtained entrance to Mr. Robertson who
is an old man upwards of 70 living with only his sister a 
Lady of nearly the same age.                                                

Since their being brought from Glasgow these unfortunate 
men have been regularly visited by Clergymen and other re- 
ligious persons, and have evinced a deep feeling of contrition 
for their crimes, giving every evidence of a repentance not to 
be repeated of. In course of this forenoon they were brought
into  the Hall and  after some pious conversation and prayers, 
they were brought out to the scaffold, dressed in a very beco- 
ming and respectable manner, from their appearance they
were earnestly supplicating the almighty for pardon, and in 
presence of a most immense multitude they were launched 
into eternity.                                                                         ]

Owing to Glasgow fast happening on this day, the con-
course of people flocking into this town during the early 
part of the forenoon was enormous while the influx from the
towns and villages in the west was no less numerous, presen- 
ting as a whole one of the most immense crowds seen in this
place or any former occasion.

PRICE ONE PENNY.Genuine and latest Account of the Ex- 
cution of John Campbell who suffered
at Stirling on Friday last, the  14th of
May    1824. shewing the   Lamentable
manner   in which    he cried aloud for
mercy, with   an account of his affect-
ing farewell with his aged Father; al-
so an   account   how he   seized hold of
rope when  he    was thrown  off.

This day, the above unfortunate young man, John Campbell,
who was, on the 9th of April last, convicted of various acts
of Housebreaking and Theft, suffered the last punishment of
the law.    His behaviour on the occasion of his trial,   was of
such an uncommon and extravagant   nature,—breaking   out
into the most heart-rending lamentations, and  otherwise ex-
hibiting such a want of fortitude,—that many  were  led  to
conjecture that there was at least a temporary   destitution of
reason.    His conduct continued nearly the same long after he
was taken out of Court, and for several   days   after  his  con-
demnation, the cries from his cell arrested and   annoyed  the
passengers on the streets.    He became afterwards,   however,
more composed ; but still at intervals displayed a weakness of
mind, which, coupled with his extreme youth, might perhaps
have well excused the extension of Royal Mercy.    Within a
few days of his execution, when he  was  assured on the evi-
dence of an official communication, that there   was no hope
of the  sentence  being commutted;  his  behaviour  became
more distracting than ever ; and it was deemed necessary to
attend him constantly,   both with  the view of keeping him
more at ease, and of preventing the sentence of the law from
being self-anticipated.

Campbell since his uondemnation, till within these few
days, took his meals regularly, and in general slept well.
Latterly, his rest was broken and disturbed, his impending
fate engrossing his whole attention ; and he was often exclaim-
ing, ' How will I be able to suffer such a death! While.
conversing  with religious  people he was more tranquil than
at other periods: and he frequently stated that his hope rest.
ed solely on the merits of  our Saviour.    The greater part of
last night was spent in a manner suitable  to the melancholy
occasion ; and the  prisoner seemed more composed  than he
had been far some nights previous.    At 2 o'clock this morn-
ing, he threw, himself on his bed, and slumbered till 3,   when
he awoke, remarking that another hour of his time was gone.
He again  betook himself to rest,   and continued in  a calm
sleep till nearly 5, when he got up, and entered seriously into
the religious conversation of those around him ; and fervent-
ly prayed that the Lord would strengthen him in his hour of
trial.    During the forenoon, he was visited qy several of the
religious  inhabitants and clergymen of the   place,   to whose
prayers and  instructions  he  paid  particular  attention.    A
little before 2 in the afternoon,   he was  led into  the Court-
Room,  where,  as is usual,  the religious exercises were per-
formed,  after which,   attended by the Rev. Mr Anderson of
Blair Logie,  he moved forward to the scaffold.    Centrary to
general expectation, the prisoner behaved with a great degree
of fortitude,   until he dropped  the signal,   when he  seized
the rope with his hand,  and consepuently  by injuring  the
fall, prolonged his agony for some time.

John Campbell was born at the bridge of Kelty, near Cal-
lander, in 1804, and came to reside in the village of St. Nin-
ians, about a mile from Stirling, when   very  young.    What
education he possessed, he received at the parochial school of
that place.    He also attended the Sabdath   Evening   School
there, but notwithstanding the good instructions he was then
receiving, he was in the habit of committing many petty de-
predations through the week, such as entering hen-houses,
and carrying off the poultry.    He never could think of set-
tling at any regular employment, and to this, the breaking of
the Sabbath, and bad company, he attributed his awful end,
For two winters he followed  after smugling,  during which
attained a number of bad habits.                                                                                                           Second Edition.

An Account of the Behaviour, Confession and Execu-
tion of John . Howison, who was executed at Edin-
burgh, this morning, Saturday, the 21st January,
1832, for the Inhuman Murder of an old Woman,
in her own house, at Cramond.

EDINBURGH, 21st January, 1832.—It will be recollected, that
this unhappy man, almost at the very moment that other
two unfortunate men, Gow and Beveridge, were suffering the last 
penalty of the law, in this city, for a similar crime, committed mur-
der, in a very brutal and barbarous manner, on the person of a very
innocent and industrious old woman, at Cramond, with in five
miles of Edinburgh, by cutting her face, with a garden spade,
down and across her face, which laid it fully open, in a shocking
manner, even in broad day-light. He was brought in the next day,
the 3d of December last, after considerable resistance on his parr,
on a cart, tied;  and, after several examinations before the Sheriff,
was fully committed for trial.

He was accordingly tried, before the High Court of Justiciary,
on the last day of the year, Saturday, 3lst December, 1831, and,
after an interesting and impartial trial, which lasted from ten on
Saturday morning, till after three on Sabbath morning, was unani-
mously found Guilty of Murder as libelled. A plea of insanity
was urged in defence, but which was rejected on the medical evi-
- dence, as well as on other evidence. Therefore, after a serious ad-
monition, and a most feeling exhortation, from the presiding Judge.
the Lord Justice Clerk, Boyle, sentenced to be executed at Edin-
burgh, on Saturday the 21st January, 1832, and his body to be
given to Dr Munro, of the University, for dissection.

Several persons obtained permission to visit him since his con-
demnation, in order to satisfy themselves as to his sanity ; of course,
there were various opinions formed. The most prevalent opinion,
however, by all those who had the best opportunities of forming
any, correctly, was, that the more was seen of him, the more he
seemed to be perfectly sane ; and he even spurned the very idea of
his being, in any manner whatever, considered insane. He posi-
tively denied having committed the crime for which he was about
to suffer, saying—" That no person ever saw him do it." He was
a great gormandiser when he could get it, and considered good
living every thing to be wished for He condsidered himself to be
particularly attached to the Society of Christian Friends, commonly
called Quakers, though it is well known he never was admitted a
member of that respectable association.

At a quarter past three yesterday afternoon, he was brought over
from the Calton Jail to the Lock-up house. After being a short
time there, he went to bed, and slept soundly for a considerable
time. He arose this morning, and appeared in the same indiffe-
rent state as before, strengthening the belief, formerly strongly sus-
pected, that more murders lay as heavy at his heart as that for 
which he was just about to suffer. About eight, Bailies Haig and
Aitchison, attended with the proper officers, appeared at the Lock-
up, when the culprit was brought into the hall, attended by the
Rev. Mr Bruce, and the Rev. Mr Porteous, who were with him for
some time previous; and, indeed, who were indefatigable in their
endeavours to bring him to a proper sense of his awful situation
since his condemnation. After a psalm was sung and prayers of-
fered up, the procession moved slowly up the wynd to the scaffold.

He appeared on the scaffold shortly after eight, where he remain-
ed but for a short time, and while a most devout prayer was offered
for him to the Throne of Grace for mercy. All things being pre-
pared, he mounted the fatal drop ; and, after a few minutes, he re-
luctantly dropped the signal, and was instantly launched into eter-
nity. He was about 44 years of age, of very loathsome and un-
couth appearance. After hanging the usual time, the body was
cut down, and sent to the College for dissection.

His Confession will soon appear at full length, in which he ac-
knowledged having murdered a Jew, four boys and one girl be-
sides a boy who he attempted to murder, but who was preserved,
making eight, including Mrs Geddes.

A VOICE FROM THE DUNGEON.

The die is now cast, the sword of Justice has been bared, and is
about to descend on his devoted head. His days are numbered, the
sixth day of March being the one fixed for execution.

On that day his life will be offered up to atone for the laws he has
broken, committed no doubt while in a state of intoxication, we may
here briefly advert to the leading circumstances of the murder. Mr
E. T. Salt was by trade a Tailor, but by some means he obtained a
situation in the Excise someyears ago. He is a stout, mild, good
looking man, and has not one particle of ferocity in his demeanor,
he wears a moustache and beard, and is the most unlikely man, as far
as appearances go, capable of committing such a crime. He is a native
of Staffordshire in England. He and his wife lived on the very worse
of terms. Her habits of intemperance constantly spoiling the har-
mony of the family. He more than once was heard to say that he
would kill her, especially on one occasion when the woman Janet
Wallace, a publican said, " If you kill her then you'll be hanged,''
how fearfully her prediction has been verified.

It is of no use now to refer to the murder, it was perpetrated in
such a manner that human nature recoils from the horrors and beastly
depravity of the crime for which he has forfeited his life.

He is now confined in a cell in the the new prison. Two men
have been appointed to sit up with him, one during the day the other
at night. The prisoner speaks often and with much annimation con-
cerning his deceased partner.

   In the cold silent cell, dejected he lay
O'erwhelmed with terror afraid for to pray,
For his crimes he did weep, and his sufferings severe,
While his face was suffused with the penitent's tear.

Soon sweet gentle sleep o'er his vision did steal
When his woes and his sufferings he ceased to feel
He dreamed of his home and relations so dear,
Who now tranquil do sleep, and strangers to fear.

And he dreamed of his home, and of his dear wife
Ere the demon intemperance had embittered his  life ;
When affection and love in their bosoms did dwell,
Alas now exchanged for the doomed felous cell.

O Salt we mourn thy misfortune,
Although that we cannot approve of thy crime
But thousands will weep on that fatal morning
To see thee cut off in the height of thy prime.

So kind hearted people pray don't be exulting,
O'er the fate of this culprit whose time draweth near
When we think of his crimes think too of his sufferings
And for him in pity drop one gentle tear.

A popular author when writing on capital punishment, describes
the last night of the condemned felon in his solitary cell: He alter-
nately lay down in his bed or sat on a small box ; he attempted to
enter into conversation with the gruff, stern, unfeeling warden of the
prison. At this time he hears a bell striking an hour from one of
the public clocks. He counts,-'tis eleven, he muttered to himself.
You are mistaken, sir, replied the guard; 'tis twelve. I am tired,
observed the condemned man. So am I, said the keeper; I hate
to be sent to a job like this, it is so melancholy ; and he began in
a low voice to hum a song about Dick Turpin. The object of their
solicitude undressed and got into bed. My life has been forfeited,
I am doomed unfit to live - I am now well guarded-I am attended
by the ministers of religion-they are desirous of making me a good
man, and after their task has been completed, I am to be led out
and put to death. From man I have no mercy to expect; 'tis from
God alone that it can be obtained. Filled with such reflections he
lay down and slept soundly. Poor man, another night and your
sleep will be sound indeed.

We understand that the wretched man is conducting himself with
the greatest properity under his impending fate. By his own request,
he has been visited by the Rev. Mr Drummond of St. Thomas' Chapel,
and listens with great attention to his instructions. He was visited
yesterday forenoon by his four children. He exhorted his eldest
child, a fine boy of ten years of age, totally to eschew drink, and as
far as in him lay to act as guardian to his brother and sisters, now
deprived of both parents. Indeed, the secne, especially of their part-
ing, was a most affecting one. He expressed a wish to see them all
once more before his execution, which we have no doubt will be grant-
ed. He was much surprised at the growth of his youngest child,
whom he had not seen since his committal.

Every kindness is shown him by the excellent Governor of the
prison, and we need scarcely say that the " bread and water" part of
the sentence is disregarded. A turnkey remains in the cell day and
night. We believe the report of the judge, with the recommendation
of the jury, has been sent to the Secretary of State ; but there is not
the remotest expectation that the recommendation will be listened to.
In fact it is felt that, if the sentence were remitted in this case, it
would be all but tanatomount to an abrogation of capital punishment.
The poor man himself seems to entertain feeble hope of a change in
the sentence. We rejoice however that the true spirit is among the
people. A petition has been got up and is numerously signed, pray-
ing for a mitigation of the sentence, which we hope may be successful.
We heard a lady-looking wretch say yesterday on the mound, that
she would sign the petition if it would hang the dog, so much for the
fine feelings of the ladies of Edinburgh.

   M'Intosh & Co., Printers, Edinburgh.EXECUTION.

Confession and Execution

OF

HUGH  MACLEOD,

Who was Executed at Inverness on
the 24th of October, for the atrocious
MURDER of MURDO GRANT,

Pedlar, from Lochbroom.

No language can convey an idea of the awful state of the unfortunate criminal on
being removed to his cell. He tossed himself about in a manner which indicated the
poignancy of his feelings, and the secret workings of his heart. About an hour after
he had been sentenced to die, the Rev. Mr. Clark visited him, and the conversation
which ensued effected a great change in the unfortunate man. He eagerly enquired
whether it were yet possible to save his life, and on being answered in the negative,
he made a full confession of his guilt to Mr. Clark. The following is the substance of
the account he gives of the murder, which he said was perpetrated on Friday, the 19th
March, 1830, at a considerable distance from the place mentioned in the indictment.

He states that he was driven to the commission of the murder by pecuniary wants;
that he prowled all day on the 18th of March, firmly determined to commit murder
and robbery that he saw the pedlar, conceiving that he had money, Macleod said to
him that  be  would purchase his whole pack if he met him on the following day near
Loch-tor-na-egin ; that they accordingly met, Macleod having a hammer concealed
under his great coat;ILL After travelling a considerable distance, they came near 
Loch-tor-na-egin, when Macleod, walked before the pedlar. The former looked
frequently round, which indnced the packman to ask, " What do you mean Hugh ?"
and instantly on this Macleod turned, and struck him a violent blow with the hammer
below the ear, which felled him to the ground. Macleod gave several other blows to
insure his death, and he could not conceive how so few wounds were observed on his
body. He said there was no quarrel, or attempt made to pick a quarrel with the
pedlar. " I without a moments notice drove the innocent man to eternity," was his
answer, emphatically given. when the question was asked. He described the horrible
and fiendish sensations with which he rifled his victim's pockets, out of which he took
a five pound, and two one pound notes, with a bag of silver and copper. He then
dragged the body by the feet into the loch—the murder having been committed
within a few yards of it—but his utmost exertions could not for some time sink the
corpse. He was, he said, trembling with fear that he might be seen; but in his own
Words,he " got strong—-very strong," and lifted a large stone, which, after much
exertion, he placed above the body. He then left the loch, and examined the pack
and the cash at a little distance from it. He took the cash with him, and concealed
the  pack in a cairn of stones.

After this he proceeded home, but slept none during night. A boy was along with
him in bed who snored very high, and this kept the dying agonies of the murdered
pedlar continually in his recollection. It was some days subsequent that he returned
to where the pack lay, and took stockings and a few other articles away. He most
solemnly asserts that he had no accomplice, and that the " dreamer" was as ignorant
of the murder as the child unborn. He added, that no person in Court was more as-
tonished at Fraser's evidence than he was, as he never placed or knew that the silk
handkerchiefs were in the spot where the officers found them.

The unfortunate man's behaviour in prison after the awful sentence was pronounced,
indicated great signs of penitence. He was visited by several clergymen, who were
continualiy imparting religious instructions to him. He was brought from his-cell' at
two o'clock, supported by the Rev. Messrs. Clark and Kennedy. When they arrived
at the place of execution, Macleod ascended the scaffold with a firm step, and having
ejaculated a short prayer, a psalm was sung, and the Rev. Messrs. Clark and Kennedy
prayed, he addressed the multitude in Gaelic as follows :—

My Friends,—It is not my intention to occupy much time in speaking. I beg you
will excuse me for addressing you in Gaelic, when I say that I am not so well acquaint-
ed with the English language. Here you behold me as one speaking to you from the
dead—it is true, I am dead to you—-you have Moses and the Prophets, hear them ;
if you hear them not, you will not hear them should one rise from the dead.

I was born of honest and God-fearing parents, whose counsel I cast behind me, and
now appear before you to undergo the Last sentence of the law. I acknowledge the
crime most justly laid to my charge.—I avow in the presence of the all-seeing God,
before whom I will ere long appear. that I and I alone have been the perpetrator of
this awful crime of murder for which 1 am about to suffer. But I thank my God that
this his precept has been so strictly obeyed ; but I am, according to the laws of God
and my country, which I have so grossly offended, thus to die the death. After ad-
monishing the people who assembled on the occasion, (about 7000,) he ascended the
steps. and alter si nging a few lines of the 51st Psalm, he said—" My God, receive my
soul,"—he then dropped the handkerchief, and was, without a struggle, launched into
eternity.

His body, after hanging three quarters of an hour, was cut down, placed in a coffin,
and taken to the jail—it was then crammed into a square box, and a couple of pecks
of salt thrown over it. and sent in a cart to Edinburgh, as neither carrier, coach, nor
ship, could be got to take if.

Aberdeen :  R, Cobban & Co.E X E C U T I O N

Of Allan Mair, an old man of 8O, for the Murder of Mary Fletcher, aged 85,
at Candie End, or Curshort, parish of Muiravonside, who suffered at Stir-
ling, this morning, Oct. 4, 1843, together with his behaviour in the Con-
demned Cell.

STIRLING, October4, 1843

This morning the awful spectacle was exhibited to the view of a vast con-
course of spectators, o the Execution of Allan Mair, a man aged eighty four
years of age, who was convicted of the Murder of his Wife, Mary Fletcher or
Mair, at Candie End or Curshort parish of Muiravonside, on the night of
Sunday the 14th, or morning of Monday the 15th May last, by beating her
with a stick or other weapon, by which she came by her death.—Fletcher was
eighty five years of age

Mair solemnly declared his innocence of the crime of which he was found
guilty, insisting that the evidences adduced on his trial had perjured them-
selves, and nothing seemed for some time capable of convincing him but that
he had been unjustly condemned.

As some of our readers may not have read any of the evidence, we give the
following, which we think is pretty decisive as to his guilt :—

Helen Bennie or Nimmo—Knows Mair, and identified him Mair came
to reside there in May, 1842  Had a woman that had stopt with him thirty
years. Heard her say so on the 14th May last She passed as his reputed
wife. Her name was Mary Fletcher. She died on the 16th May, at four o'-
clock. Witness was with her when she died, and was in the constant habit of
seeing her since she came to reside there. Visited her Once or twice a day.
Told witness she was eighty-five years old  Looked fully that age. Deceas-
ed Could not walk well—had got a hurt on her back Deceased never was
unwell but once while there, and this was about the New Year. Said that she
did not get her victuals as she ought from Mair. Said so in Mair s presence.
Panel gave deceased some abusive language, and wished she was in hell and
her soul burning. Never knew them want victuals out of the house, but ho
kept them locked up. Many a time he starved her, but witness always gave
her something to eat, and some of the neighbours did so too; but this was al-
ways done when panel was out Deceased seemed a well-disposed person.—
Mair always abused her, and often wished she was dead. Deceased often said
 ' We could live like the king on the throne, although we are poor, if you
were good to me.' Saw her on the 14th of May at 7 at night, and gave her
some supper  she told me something that made me get up and put on my
clothes, and go with her, and I heard the cry of murder. Knew deceased's
voice. Heard the strokes Was distant a few yards. Heard the cries re-
peated, and the blows continued. I went to the door. The blows were very
heavy, like the blows of a hammer. When witness wa at the front, she heaid
deceased say to Mair, ' Let me lie, and die in peace, and don't strike me any
more' Saw her next morning about seven Panel opened the door and said
deceased had been fighting with the bed doors all night, and breaking them.
Witness spoke mildly to him, as she was a'raid, and asked him what ailed
him at her. Panel said he had got no sleep with her smashing them. Said
he was going down to the manse with the key, and to tell the minister to
make a snuff-box of his wife. Witness had taken some tea for her, and went
to bed and did not see her, and asked him what he had done with her, as she
was not there. Panel swore at her and said ' where could she be?' Witness
looked again, and she was crouched up at the foot of the bed. She had a
cap on, and an old piece of cotton cloth about her shoulders. The front of
her shilt was all blood. Her arms were bare, Saw a deal of blood about the
bed . When I offered her the tea, she was not able to list her right hand but
could move the other. She took some of it and pointed to Allan, and said it
was him that did that, meaning the bruises she had got, and I sent for a po-.
lice officer and got the pannel into custody. Deceased was alive at the time,
but 1 thought she died of the wounds received.

It appears that he had entertained the idea of self-destruction, by abstaining
from food, which he actually did for four or five days after the passing of his
sentence, but the cravings of nature became too much to withstand, and he
afterwards partook of his victuals freely.

He was in hopes of a mitigation of his sentence, till Thursday morning last,
when an answer to his memorial was received from the .Secretary of State,
stating that no hopes of mercy might be expected; Mair, on hearing this,
said, ' Weel, I maun submit.'

He was assisted in his spiritual concerns by the Rev. Mr Stark, chaplain
of the Jail, the Rev. Messrs Gilfillan, Leitch, Watson, and Harper, and rea-
dily entered into conversation with them, and exhibited cansiderable acquain-
tance with the truths of the Gospel,and sometimes manifested bursts of feel-
ing of a very strong nature, more  resembling those of youth than of hoary
age hardened into searedness.                                                              

About eight o'clock the magistrates entered the Court Hall, and the pri.
soner soon after, supported by two individuals,and attended by the foregoing
elergymen, who assisted him at his devotions, which being finished, he shortly
afterwards ascended the scaffold, and almost immediately thereafter the signal
Was given—the drop fell—and after a few convulsive struggles, the world
closed upon the wretched man for ever.

Muir, Printer, Glasgow.EXECUTION

                                                                                                                               

   Of ELIZABETH M'NIEL or BANKS, who was Executed this   

       morning, at the west end of the Lock-up-house, for the Murder   

       of her husband, Peter Banks, a collier at Pathhead.                      

                         Edinburgh, Monday, August 3,  1835.                        

    THIS morning, soon after eight o'clock,  Elizabeth M'Niel or    
 Banks, wife of Peter Banks, late collier at Dewarton, near    
Pathhead, underwent the extreme penalty of the law, upon a scaf-    
fold erected at the west end of the Lock-up-house, foot of Libber-    
ton's Wynd, for the murder of the said Peter Banks, her husband,
by wilfully and maliciously administering to him a quantity of arse-
nic in a doze of Epsom salts, on the 28th April last, in consequence    
of which he died on or about the same day, and for which she was    
tried, found guilty, and condemned on the 13th of last month.          

       This unfortunate woman was a native of East Lothian, of a mea-    
    gre like appearance, and about fifty-three years of age.    She has    
    left ten or twelve children by her first husband, having been for-    
    merly married to a man of the name of Hodge.    As a widow she re-    
    sided in a small house called the Abbey of Tranent, from which she    
    removed into that village, where she became acquainted with the    
    deceased, to whom she was shortly afterwards married, about a year    
    and a half ago.    They then removed to Dewarton, where they sub-    
    sisted chiefly by bawking of pottery-ware.    They lived very uncorn-    
    fortably together, indulging in excessive use of spirituous liquors.     
       After her condemnation she made several attempts to starve her-    
    self to death, to avoid the ignominy of a public execution—but was    
         as often constrained to yield to the cravings of hunger.                     
       She was extremely ignorant of the first principles of religion ;    
    and much praise is due to the Rev. Mr Cunningham of the College    
    Church, and to Mr Hislop, the chaplain of the jail, both of whom    
           were most assiduous in their attendance upon her, and under whose    
    religious instructions she made considerable progress in preparing    
    for her awful change.    She became very penitent, acknowledged    
   the justice of her sentence, and joined devoutly in the religious    
           exercises of  her friends.                                                                  
       She was brought over to the Lock up-house about five o'clock   
    this morning, where she spent the few hours of her remaining time    
            in devotional exercises with her spiritual friends.                              
        A little before eight o'clock, the Magistrates, attended by their   
   officers,  appeared in the hall of the Lock-up,   when M'Niel was    
    ushered in, and underwent the operation of pinioning her arms.    
   After prayer, the melancholy party entered upon the scaffold (erect-    
    ed close to the wall of the building) from a window of the Lock-up.   
    The unfortunate woman appeared very much exhausted, and had   
    to be supported throughout the greater part of the awful ceremony.    

   Here a most pathetic prayer was again offered up on her behalf,   
   in which she appeared most seriously and attentively to join; and,   
   after shaking hands with those around her, she was then assisted to    
    mount the fatal drop.    While the executioner was adjusting the   
    aparatus of death, the unfortunate woman appeared to pray very   
    earnestly.    Every  thing being ready, she then convulsively and re-   
    luctantly dropped the white handkerchief, when the drop fell, and   
    she was launched into eternity,  amidst a very great concourse of   
    spectators.    She struggled a good deal, and was much convulsed.    
    After hanging about half an hour, the body was lowered down, and   
    afterwards conveyed to the Calton Jail, there to be interred, in    
     pursuance of the sentence.                                                                             

                Sanderson, Printer, High Street, Edinburgh.                    EXECUTION

Account of the Execution of Elizabeth Nicklson, or Shafto, or Jeffrey, when
was Executed in front of the Jail, this morning, for a Double Murder, 1st,
with administering, on  the 4th October last, to Ann Newal or Carl, resid-
ing in Carluke, a quantity of arsenic, which she mixed with meal and
water and whisky, in consequence of which she died; 2d, with having ad-
minis ered to Hugh Munro, then labourer or miner at' carluke, a quantity '
of ar senic, which she mixed with porridge; and Hugh Munro  died in conse-
quence of having partaken of the same.

IT will be recollected that the unhappy woman who
has this day justly forfeited her. life  to the offended
laws of God, and of man,was tried at our last As-
sizes.  The indictment against the prisoner ran has-
'You the said Elizabeth Nicklson or Shafto or Jef-
frey .  lately resding  at Carluke, are charged with ad-
minist  ing  on the 4th of Octeber, last, to Ann Newal 
or Carl  residing in Carluke, a quant ty. of arsenic.
which you mixed up with,meal and water  and whisky,
and which you pretended was a medicine for her be-
nefit and the said Ann Newalor Carl having drank
there of, became.violently ill, and.died next day in
consequence of having swallowed the said mixture.—
You are also charged with having on the 28th of Oc-
tomber last , admin stered to to Hugh Munro,then labour
er  or miner at Carluke,and lodging with you,a quan-
tity of arsenic which  you had mixed  up.,with, po -
ridge and the said Hugh Munro  having pa taken of
the porridge became ill ' and , continued so-the two
following  days. You are likewise accused,of having
on the  30th, October last,  administered to the said
Hugh Monro a quantity ,of  arsenic which  you had
mixed  up with rhubarb and the said Hugh Munro 
died in consequence of having partaken  of the same 
The pris ner pleaded Not Guilty, and the trial pro.
ceeded-    Never before was there so connected and
convincing a chain of circumstancial evidence deve-
loped in a Court of Justice.    The following is a sort
of summing up of the facts of the case , as they were
sworn to on the trial.    It appeared the no suspicion
had been excited against the prisoner amongst the
villagers of Carluke, on the death of the old woman,
Carl, who resided next door to the prisoner-but that
when her lodger Munro died in excruciating agony
about four weeks after, and was buried by request of
the prisoner, (as indeed Carl was also) in a great,
hurry, reports not favourable, to her began to be o-
penly made, and to such a, length did the matter go,
that both bodies were raised from their graves, and
certain portions of the stomachs extracted for medi-
cal examination.    It afterwards appeared from the
evidence of the  two surgeons's at Carluke   as well as
from that of  two highly experienced chemists in Ed-
inburgh, to whom  portions of the matter found in
the stomach s has been transmitted, that minute quan-
tities of arsenic, but quite sufficient to cause death,
had been discovered in each of the stomachs.  It was
also proven that the prisoner had purchased arsenic
at two  different times,by the, hands  of another per-
son, for the ostensible  purpose,  as  was alleged, of
killing rats , by which she said her house was infested,
although none of the witnesses on that spot  had  ever
seen a,rat about the premises.  These purchases, be
it observed, were made immediately  preceding the

death of Carl and  Munro  Add  to this it was pro-
ven that the prisoner mixed up the dose for the sick
woman  Carl hersel —and also made the porridge by
which her  l dger Munro was poisoned . With regard 
to this poor highlander,it  appeared  that he came 
home on a Saturday, in as good health and  high glee
as ever  he was in his life, looking forward ,no doubt
to a happy meeting he was soon expecting to have
with 'his friends in Skye, and that having partaken of
some porridge.made by the prisoner, he was soon  
after seized  with dreadful  thirst and -pain,    in this   
 state the continued for two days  when she again ten  
dered  him  mixture  of rhubarb  as she alleged; soon.   
after which she expired in great agony. The priso-
ner owed     Munro five pounds, which  she could  not
pay, and this seemed to be the only caus- she had for   '
commit ing to diabolical a crime.   ,About the-period
of the murder, jeffray  used  many inefectual tricks'
o make-the friends of the deceared believe that she
had  accounted on  the money to the deceased, but it   
Came clearly out that she had not  paid a farthing of  
it.   With regard, to the murder of the old woman,
Carl, the Depute-Advocate's theo y was, that the
prisoner had tried her hand on her to discover how
much poison it would take to kill the young man,
Munro but the villagers say the houses were very
Scarce at Carluke, and that the prisoner wished to
make room for a more productive lodger.There were
many other facts came out in d tail, all tending to
criminate the prisoner, who after a trial of 18 hours,
was found Guilty, and sentenced to be Executed this
day, but recommended to mercy by the Jury—for
what reason, or on what grounds, was not mentioned.
On this  recommendation the prisoner had-great hopes
until Thursday, when an answer to an application to
Lord John Russell,from a few Quakers and other
eccentric individuals in this City, was refused; These -
characters say it was a mighty piece of unheard-of
cruelty to execute BURKE!    .

But we have no patience with them—their maukish
ravings are an outrage on nature and common sense,
how humane, and kind, and charitable 'they are to
the cold blooded murdere.—while not a sigh is given
tor the innocent butchered victims!

When the prisoner understood there was no hope,
(Which had been so unproperly  raised) she betook
herself to her devotions, and has continued  almost
since,engaged  in prayer.    The crowd ,this morning,
around  the, scaffold  was   large.    After some tim e
spent in earnest prayer with the clergymen who as-
sisted her; sh  gave the signal, when the drop fell,
and in a minote she ceased to exist. The crowd then-
left  the ground in good order.

Muir,  Pr inter, Glasgow.   Execution.

Account of the behaviour in confinement and on the Scaffold,
of JAMES GLEN, who suffered at Glasgow on Wednes-
day the 12th of December, 1827, for the terrible, cruel, and
barbarous Murder of his own infant child, by throwing it
into the Forth and Clyde Canal, at a place called the New
Plash, with an account of his sorrowful parting with his
friends. His body was afterwards given for disscetion,

GLASGOW, l2th Dec. 1827.

This day, the awful sentence of death was fulfilled upon the above unhappy
man, for the brutal murder of his own child, James Glen, a child 17 months old,
on the lst May, 1827, by barbarously and feloniously choaking and strangling the
said child, and squeezing its throat with his hands, or by tying a string tight round
its throat, or by some other means, and did afterwards throw it into the Forth and
Clyde Canal, at a place called the New Plash, on the 9th of the said month of May,
of which murder he was found Guilty before the High Court of Justiciary at Edin-
burgh on the 10th November last, and received the sentence of death, and was sent
back to Glasgow afterwards, to await the time of its execution.

Since his conviction, he has been very penitent and resigned to his fate, and paid
every attention to the Ministers who attended him in his Christian devotions, and
who explained to him various passages fitted for his instruction and comfort in his
awful and trying situation. After 8 o'clock, he entered the Hall, and was assisted
there by those Ministers who previously attended him, and after putting up prayers
and praise in his behalf, he proceeded to the scaffold, where, after spending a few
minutes in fervent prayer, he gave the signal, and after a few struggles, his spirit
fled to an unknown state. His body, after hanging, about thirty-five minutes, was
cut down, and conveyed, under a proper escort, to Dr. Jeffrey, Professor of Ana-
tomy in the College of Glasgow, for public dissection.

The case of this unfortunate man did not excite much commisseration, owing to
the horrid nature of the deed; a man to murder his own child, in order to get clear
of expense, after receiving it under his charge from its mother, cannot in the smal-
lest degree be justified. Though it was illegitimate, it was he that was to blame,
and therefore should have protected, and not mangled, murdered, and thrown into
the Canal, a child of 17 months old, perhaps at the time smiling in the father's face,
and the body of which he afterwards passed lying on the banks of the Canal, blam-
ing some person in that neighbourhood for doing the deed. The only defence that
he made on his trial was, that he gave the child to  a  poor woman whom he met in
the Cowcaddens. He gave her 12 shillings for its support. Denied murdering it,
or being accessory to its death, but we understand, has since owned his guilt.

He took an affectionate leave of his relatives and friends the day previous to his
execution, and hoped they would not grieve on his account, but live in peace and
good will with all mankind. He was sorry that any act which he had committed,
should tend to stain their reputation, and hoped that none would blame them on
his account. The meeting was most affecting, especially at parting.

He was a good looking young man, about 22 years of age, and was carter. He
belonged to New Kilpatrick, and has  resided in other country villages. He has
a number of decent friends, who are left to mourn over his untimely end. He was
decently dressed in black, and thanked the Governor and other servants in the jail
for the kind treatment he had received from them. He made his escape along with
some  other prisoners, by breaking the  jail, but gave himself up before his trial.

The fate of this young man should prove a warning to all, to keep from every
thing that might tend to lead from the strict line of integrity, and not to imbrue
their hands in the blood of a fellow creature, be he old or young, friend or enemy.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.EXECUTION.

 A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of JAMES
WEMYSS, Umbrella Manufacturer, Grassmarket, Edin-
burgh, who was Hanged here on Thursday the 16th day of
April, 1840, for the Cruel and Barbarous Murder of his own
Wife, or reputed Wife, on the 27th of January last.

This unfortunate man was tried on the 16th of March last, and
was unanimously found guilty of the Murder of his wife, as libel-
led, by a respectable jury ; both his victim and himself being in a
state of beastly intoxication at the time, and was sentenced to be
fed upon bread and water only, till the 6th day of April; on which
day he was to be taken from the jail to such place as the Lord
Provost and Magistrates of Edinburgh should appoint, and there to
be hanged by the neck, by the hands of the common Hangman,
till he was dead, and his body to be afterwards buried within the
precincts of the jail. Though Wemyss appeared quite careless and
unconcerned during the whole proceedings of the trial, and even
while the awful sentence of the law was pronouncing, he was
no sooner removed from the bar, than he became fully aware
of his dreadful situation, and his assumed hardihood forsook
him; indeed he appeared quite overcome while he was con-
veyed to jail. He was brought up in great ignorance, and
could neither read nor write, nor was of any religious persuasion
whatever. He was regularly visited by Mr Hyslop, the Chap-
lain of the jail, and by the Rev. Mr Sym of Greyfriars Church,
to whose pious discourses and exhortations he seemed to give due
and apparent thankful attention.

April 16, 1840.—The ill-fated James Wemyss suffered the last
penalty of the law this morning on the scaffold, which was erected
at the  usual place in the   Lawnmarket, he  having   been respited
for   ten   days    after   the   6th of   April.    He was previously re-
moved from the Calton Jail to the Lock-up-House, where he was   
soon waited on  by the officiating Clergymen, who continued  in
conversation and religious exercises with him till a late hour, and
to whose earnest prayers and pious discourses he paid the greatest
attention.     He confessed and acknowledged the justice of his sen-
tence, and sadly lamented the awful crime he had committed, and
the unlawful and sinful life he had latterly led, for which he was
now about to suffer ignominiously ; and most earnestly beseeching
all those who saw or heard of his sad fate, to avoid drinking ardent
and intoxicating liquors, and the company of loose, disorderly and
debauched people, which was the ruin of millions, as well as him.
After praying privately very eanestly, he was advised to lie down,
which he did, and slept for a short while, occasionally sighing and
groaning very bitterly.     He then   rose, and,  after  praying  again
privately, partook of a very little refreshment.   Soon after the Rev.
Clergymen arrived, Dr Hunter, Mr Sym and Mr Hyslop, the Chap-
lain of the Jail, and  Wemyss was brought to the Hall, where his
arms were pinioned, and where after the arrival of the officiating
Magistrates and their officers, a psalm was sung and earnest prayers
offered up to the throne of Grace on his behalf; and where also he
most thankfully acknowledged the great kindness and attention he
had received, not only from the Rev. Clergymen, who he said, were
most assiduous in their endeavours to enlighten his dark and dis-    
mal mind, and to bring it to a proper sense of his awful situation,
but likewise from the Governor of the Jail, and all under him.   The
melancholy procession then formed, and moved slowly up to the
scaffold, whereon he appeared a few minutes after eight o'clock, de-
cently dressed.    His appearance indeed indicated that he had un-
dergone much mental suffering, and when we saw him on the scaf-
fold, we could not actually recognize the firm and cool character
which we witnessed at his trial.    To the astonishment of the spec-
tators, he seemed ro be quite dead when he received the first fall,
but in a few seconds the convulsions of departing life revived, and
he suffered most awfully before  life became extinct,  which took
place in a few minutes.

Menzies, Printer, EdinburEXECUTION

An account of the Execution of John Thomson and David Dobie, for the Assault,
Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, on the 17th April last, with a
copy of an affectionate Letter sent to Dobie's wife.

David Dobie.                         Margaret  Pa'erson.                      John Thomson.



Edinburgh, Wednesday morning, 9' o'clock, 18th August 1830.

THIS morning the above represented unfortunate young men, DAVID
DOBIE and JOHN THOMSON, Carters, from Gilmerton, in the vicinity
of this City, suffered the last punishment of the law at the head of Libberton
Wynd, a little before nine o'clock, for the assault, murder and robbery of Mar-
garet Paterson, an unmarried young woman, on the road near Gilmerton, on
the evening of the 17th April last.

These men were very rude and ill-behaved before and after their trial, it will
be recollected ; and were. obliged to be put in separate cells in the Jail, soon
after their condemnation, on account of the many reflections on one another's
conduct, and on the share that each said the other had in- that late awful and
abominable transaction, that brought them to an untimely and shameful end.
As the time they were doomed to expiate their crimes on the scaffold approached,
they were both brought to a proper sense of their awful situation, and to see
the absolute necessity of an immediate and most fervent appeal to.the only
quarter from which they could possibly expect mercy —to the great God of
heaven and earth, through the death and sufferings of his only begotten Son,
Jesus Christ, This great change must surely be ascribed principally to the in-
defatigable exertions of the Clergy, and other devout persons who visited them,
under the divine blessing The following Letter from Dobie to his wife last
week, will better show the state of their minds at the time :—

" My Dear Wife—I write these  lines to you, hoping you may receive some
consolation from them.    This is the only comfort that I can now bestow, to let
you know the state of my mind ; although my guilt does stare me in the face, I
 trust God will be merciful to me a humble penitent; although my hands are
stained with the blood of that young woman, I trust the  blood of Christ will
wash me from my guilt.    Dear Wife, I am quite resigned to my fate ; I forgive
all my enemies,  and trust they will also  forgive me ; I  die  in  peace with all
men.    You will not have the pleasure of laying my body in the dust; I beg of
you, as a last wish, that you do not grieve on this account,  as these dry bones
will perhaps live to future glory, where men cannot scatter them.
" Dear Wife—Show this letter to the aged father of Margaret Paterson, whose
hoary head we have brought with sorrow to the grave. We sincerely ask his
forgiveness, which is but a poor consolation to him for the loss of his daughter,
whom he held so dear, which, by our wicked and subtle hearts, has left him to
bewail the loss of a child, and you a faithless husband. Give my last sincere
respects to all my friends and comrades, and to the grace of God I leave you
and them for ever—Farewell ! Farewell !                                      D. DOBIE.''

Edinburgh Jail, 12th August 1830.

Accordingly, having been removed from the Jail to the Lock-up-House last
evening, where they devoted a few hoars to sleep, they were early waited on by
the officiating Magistrates and Clergymen this morning ; and, after spending
some little time in religious exercises, and pinioning their arms, soon after
eight o'clock they appeared on the Scaffold, cleanly dressed. After a Psalm was
sung, and an impressive and fervent prayer put up on their behalf, they mount-
ed the fatal drop, where they were seen praying themselves, when the caps
were drawing down on shaking hands. In a few moments a signal was dropped
by Dobie, and they were instantly launched into the World of Spirits, An im-
mense number of spectators attended, After hanging the usual time the bodies
were cut down, and laid in shells to be afterwards conveyed to the College for
dissection.                                                                  (Price One Penny.)

Robertson and Thomson, Printers, Edinburgh.                A Full, and Particular, Account of the Execution of John
Wilson, and Duncan Fraser, who were Executed, at the
Head of Libberton Wynd, on Wednesday morning the
28th. January, 1824, for Housebreaking and Theft, with
a, Particular Account, of their Behaviour since their con-
 demnation, and   at the Place of Execution.

THESE Unfortunate Young Men, JOHN WILSON, and DUNCAN FRA-
SER, were tried at Edinburgh, before the High Court of Justiciary, and
a respectable Jury, on Monday the 22d of December last, for Housebreaking and
Theft, aggravated by being habit and repute common Thieves. They were
charged with breaking into the Shop of Mr James Smyth, tailor and broker in
St Mary's Wynd, Edinburgh, on the 8th of October last, and stealing therefrom
a great many articles of Wearing Apparel. To which charge they both pled
Guilty, though repeatedly cautioned by the Lord Advocate, as to the perilous
situation in which they stood, and the serious nature of the charge, upon which
a capital sentence must inevitably follow, it not being his intention to restrict
the libel to an arbitary punishment. They adhered to thier confession of
Guilt, however, which was recorded, and they were duly convicted in terms thereof,

The Lord Justice Clerk, in pronouncing judgment, said it was distressing to
observe, that the offence of housebreaking and theft should be persevered in by
persons arrived at the prisoners' age of maturity and discretion, notwithstand-
ing the examples which had been very recently made, in this very city, of indit
viduals who had forfeited their lives to the violated laws of their country. I
was still more distressing to observe, that the prisoners belonged to a class of
offenders who laboured under the repute of being habitual thieves, and of hav-
ing been previously convicted of theft. Would to God that they had taken
warning from the example of the first conviction, and that the Court had been
spared the pain of inflicting....that the prisoners had been thus happily rescued
from the dreadful necessity of suffering.... and that their distressed relatives had
been spared the affliction of, witnessing—the disgraceful punishment of their
guilt. His Lordship, under a very evident oppression of feeling, proceeded to
to state that he had that morning seen a letter from the father of the prisoner,
Wilson, which, appeared to have been written under all the agony of mind which
a parent might be expected to feel on contemplating the present disgraceful si-
tuation of his son. (This unfortunate lad's parent, we understand, is now in a
mad house of this City, having lost his reason on hearing the condemnation of
his Son). His Lordship, after recommending the prisoners to apply, without
loss of time, to spiritual counsel and assistance, then read the sentence of the
Court, ordaining the prisoners to be executed on Wednesday, the 28th of Janu-
ary next, between the hours of eight and ten morning.

Accordingly, they were early  on Tuesday removed to the Lock-up-House,
where they were waited on by several of their nearest relations, and the separa-
tion from some of them was most appaling to the most hardened feelings. The
Clergy of the city, as well as the Chaplain of the Jail, and other good Christians
in town; were most attentive and most earnest for their religious instruction
and edification, which they repeatedly and sincerely acknowledged.

They slept little or none on Tuesday evening, and the Clergyman and offi-
ciating Magistrates waited on them in the Hall of the Lock-up-House, a little
before Eight o'clock on Wednesday morning, when they joined most fervently
in the devotional supplications put up on that occasion. After which, their arms
were pinioned, and the melancholy procession moved up, in a slow and solemn .
manner, to the head of Libberton Wynd, attended by a strong detachment of
Police Officers. They appeared on the scaffold, decently dressed, about half-
past eight o'clock, where a psalm was sung, in which they joined; and a most
impressive prayer put up for them to the throne of mercy, by one of the Cler-
gymen present; during which they appeared most devout and attentive to what
was so eloquently urged in thir behalf. Having taken a solemn farewell of '
those around them, they mounted the fatal drop, with a little assistance, where
they appeared most fervent in prayer, while the ropes were adjusting round
the beam. All things being prepared, and having taking farewell of each other,
they dropt the signal, and were launched into eternity about 9 o'clock.

Edinburgh, Printed for James Dogherty, Price One Penny,Execution.

A full and  particular account of the
Execution of John Wilson and Duncan
Fraser, this day 28th January,for break-
ing into a shop in St. Mary's Wynd,
with an account of their behaviour in
Jail and at the place of Execution.

Edinburgh, Jan. 28, 1824 This day were Executed pursuant
to their sentence, John Wilson and Duncan Frazer, for breaking
into a Tailors Shop, in St. Mary's Wynd, and stealing sundry
articles of wearing Apparel; they both pled guilty at their trial.

These unfortunate young men have been exceedingly restless
since the other convict, Douglas, (who was sentenced to be Ex-
ecuted along with them for the crime of highway robbery,) got
a respite. In consequence of this unlocked for extension of the
Royal clemency, Wilson and Frazer, it seems, entertained a hope
 that it might also be extended to them, considering their own
crimes as of a less atrocious character than that of Douglas.
This hope Wilson particularly continued to indulge till Wedne-
esday morning last, the 21st, when he gave himself up to a state
bordering on despair, uttering horrid imprecations, and vehement-
ly declaring that force alone should drag him from his cell to the
place of execution. It is hoped, however, that the exhortations
of the clergymen who Visited him brought him to a temper of
mind more suitable to his awful situation.

Expectation were generally entertained that the place of exe-
cution would be changed  prior  these unfortunate  men's  awful
exit, but at a meeting of the town council,  it was decided that no
alteration  at the  present time  would  take place.    The  scaffold
was, as usual, erected last night at the head of Libberton's Wynd.
This morning crowds collected very early, and took their stances
as near to the scaffold as the guard would permit,  and a continu-
ed movement  and noise reigned until the unhappy victims made
their appearance, when a dead  silence prevailed,    They were re-
moved from the  Calton-hill Jail  on Tuesday afternoon  about 4
o'clock, (previous  to leaving  the jail; they parted  for the  last
time with  their relations,)  in a carriage,  which landed  opposite
the Court-door in the Parliament Square, by which the prisoners
were conveyed into the Lock up-house.    In the morning when
  the  clergymen and magistrates arrived,   they were  brought into
the hall,and seemed to pay attention to a most feeling and path-
etic  prayer  delivered   by one  of the  clergymen.    After  eight
o'clock struck,  they prepared to   move to the  scaffold; the ex-
Iutioner  appeared and   pinioned thir arms, and   about a quarter 
 before nine they proceeded to the fatal spot,    They joined in the
religious  duties with great fervour.    Before mounting the drop,
Frazer  came forward  to the front of  the scaffold  and addressed
the multitude  in nearly the  following words, Good People, take
warning by our  untimely end.    Refrain  from Sabbath-breaking,
and the company of bad women,  drinking and swearing, which
have been ruin,    God be with you all,    They then  ascended the
drop with fortitude,   and a quarter past nine they were launched
into eternity.

 They ware both young men. and belonged to Edinburgh.
Frazer was brought up in the Castle-hill, and Wilson in the West
Bow; and, we believe, no blame can be attached to the
parents of these unfortunate young men, who, we under-
stand used every endeavour to check them in their wicked carreer,
they at times flattered, at others threatened, but it had no otther
effect than making them absent themselves from under their
parent's roof, and associate with those who by their bad exam
ple have brought them to this untimely end. Wilson's father
on the morning of their trial, wrote a most feeling letter, ad-
dressed to the Lord Justice Clerk.

It would, have been thought that the many examples made,
and the sure fate of the above two, would have thrown a damp-
ness over the twenty-two convicts that were sent away on Thurs-
day last, the most of whom having narrowly escaped the same
fate, but instead of that, their minds were premediating the mur-
der of one of the turnkeys and effect their escape ; their deadly
weapon was a table knife, made sharp in the point and the back,
fortunately the horrid plot was discovered, and the weapon tak-
en from them; they were considered the most hardened and
mischievous set that have ever been within the walls of the jail. 

Edinburgh, Printed for the Booksellers.                     EXCUTION.

A Full, True, and Particular A count of the EXECUTION of
JAMES BELL, late private in the 5th Dragoon Guards, who
was Executed this morning, at the head of Libberton's Wynd,
for the Murder of Serjeant-Major Moorhead ; together with his
Cunsession, his Behaviour in the Jail and on the Scaffold, and a
short Sketch of his  Life.

Edinburgh.   Monday, July 13,  1835.

THIS morning, soon after eight o'clock, James Bell, late private
in the 5th Dragoon Guards, underwent the extreme penalty
of the law, at the head of Libberton's Wynd, pursuant to his sen-
tence, for the murder of Serjeant-Major Moorhead, by shooting
him in the back with a pistol ball, while on duty at the stables at
Piers-hill Barracks, on Sunday evening the 17th of May last.

This unfortunate man was born in Ireland in the year 1808, of 
poor but honest parents. He was bred a labourer, and in the year
1829 he enlisted into the 60th Rifle Brigade, then lying in Dublin,
where he remained for upwards of four years. Not considering
himself comfortable in that distinguished corps, he effected a trans-
fer from it to the 5th Dragoon Guards, under pretext of having a
senior brother in that regiment, which was afterwards found to be
a fabrication. About a year ago, this unhappy man, who was na-
turally of an unsettled and discontented disposition, was drafted
into Captain King's troop, of which the deceased William Moor-
head. a rigid disciplinarian, was Serjeant-Major. Bell appears to
have formerly suffered under his displeasure, for some misconduct;
and having been refused leave of absence from evening stables on
the day alluded to, he, in a fit of revenge, committed the rash act,
which has brought him to an ignominious end.                                    

Since his condemnation he was very penitent, paying the most
particular attention to the religious instructions communicated to
him by the Rev. Mr Terriot of St. Paul's Chapel and the Rev. Mr
Hunter of the Tron Church, both of whom were most assiduous in
their attendance upon him.

He was brought over to the Lock-up-house about half-past eleven
o'clock last night where he was immediately Waited upon by his
spiritual adviseres wich whom he spent the greater part of the
night in devotional exercises.

A little before eight o'clock, the Magistrates, attended by ther
officers, appeared in the ball of the Lock-up, when Bell was usher-
ed in, and underwent the operation of pinioning his arms.    After
prayer,  the  melancholy  procession  moved up the wynd,   and the
unfortunate   man   appeared  on the   scaffold  a  few  minutes   past    
eight,  decently dressed.                                                                        

A most fervent and pathetic prayer was offered up on his behalf, 
in which he appeared most seriously and attentively to join ; and, 
after shaking hands with those around him, he was then assisted to 
mount the fatal drop.    The executioner, who seemed much agi-    
tated and rather dilatory is his motions, was then assisted in ad-    
justing the aparatus of death, when the unfortunate man appeared    
to pray very earnestly.    Every thing being ready,   he then firm-    
ly dropped the white handkerchief, when, in a few minutes,   the    
drop fell, and he was launched into eternity,   amidst a very great    
concourse of spectators.     He struggled a good deal, and was much
convulsed.     After banging about six and thirty minutes, the body
was lowered down,   and afterwards conveyed to the Calton Jail
there to be interred, in pursuance of the sentence.

Sanderson, Printer, High Street, Edinburgh.EXECUTION

An account of the Execution of
Robert Emond, who was executed this
morning March 17, 183O, at the Head
of Libberton's Wynd. for the Murder
of Mrs Franks and her Daughter at
Haddington, in October last.

This morning, Wednesday 17th March, Robert Emond suffered
the last sentence of the law, at the-usual place of execution, head
of Libberton's wynd.

Since this unhappy culprit's trial, he has at different times made
various confessions of his guilt, and the reasons which prompted
him to commit the horrid deeds. He seems to have had brought
himself to think that he was utterly despised by Mrs Franks and
his wife and on being opposed by them in any of his foolish specu-
lations in trade, although for his own ultimate good, was consider-
by him as resulting- from that deep-rooted apathy, as he thought,
they treated him with. Thus circumstance after circumstance only
served still more to impress upon his bewildered mind the false
ideas with which he nourished it, and at last so overpowering were
their fell effects, that, revenge now took full possession of his breast.
It would appear from his confessions, that he had no intention to
take the life of Magdalene Franks, but after having committed the
one deed, he, to avoid discovery, committed the second. His
sister repeatedly visited him in the jail; she had come to Edin-
burgh previous to the trial; her visits were in no ways made to
console her guilty brother, but rather  to grapple at any effects he-
was in possession of, as she said to pay the heavy expence to which
she had been put in attending his trial, &c. His brother, a blind
man, was very much affected at meeting and parting with him.
His mother, about ten days back, came to Edinburgh, and some
affecting scenes passed between them; she seems to have had more
partiality for Emond than the rest of her family, she is about 70,
and get home in better health than was anticipated.

Different reports were spread  about of Emond's attempts to
commit suicide, which, from his manner and restlessness, we have
no doubt but he would have done so, but. in addition to his being-
strongly ironed, watchmen were placed with him night and day,
and the strictest search made on the persons of any of his friends
who were admitted to him;—in fact he could not make the least
motion or move himself, but the eyes of his watchers were on him.
Indeed, one attempt was made to convey a deadly poison to him-
by a   near   female   relation,   but she was immediately detected.
Emond shewed repeatedly what mast be the awful state of a mur-
derer's mind.

His nights were passed in broken slumbers, from which he gen-
erally awaked in hurried starts, betraying an awful state of mind
wich he felt himself quite unable to describe    In the daytime beex-
hibited the same restlessness and uneasine ss, and  was  haunted  by
the phantoms of his bleeding victims, untill his  mind, overwhelmed
by midnight visions and day  dreams of guilt  and  punishment, be-
came excited to a state bordering on frenzy, under the  influence of
which he talked wildly and incoherently ; but these paroxyms were
seldom of a long continuance, as he generally found  relief in tears.
and when his mind was somewhat eased,  he resumed his natural
manner.    He did not seem much concerned  when the  murder  of
Mrs Franks was mentioned, but whenever the name of Magdalene
Franks was mentioned or the idea came  across  his  mind, he was
immediately seized with the  most dreadful fits of despair,, and   ex-
claimed, 'The innocent blood calls for vengeance.'

He payed attention to the clergy and others who spoke to him on
religious matters, and received them with great civility, and even
dwelt upon the subjects stated, with a kind of seeming inward
pleasure. He had some. peculiar opinions of his own, which, though
absurd, he strongly dinged to.

Emond was previously brought from the Calton Jail to the Lock-
up-house. He was awakened about 6 o'clock, and spent the time
till nearly 8 preparing himself for his Awful end. When he was
told the magistrates were in readiness for him, he quietly submitt-
ed to his arms being- fastened. They moved op Libbertons a Wynd
at a few minutes past 8 ; the crowd assembled wa.s great, and a
general movement was made when be ascended the scaffold, A
short time only was spout  in prayer. &c. when be mounted the drap
and on giving the signal was instantly launched  into eternity.

EXECUTION.

A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of
THOMAS BLACK, who was Executed at the Head
of Libbertoo Wynd, Edinburgh, this morning, Wed-
nesday the 10th December, 1823, for Housebreaking
and Theft; and of his Behaviour since his Condem-
nation, and at the Place of Execution.

THIS unhappy young man was Tried at Edinburgh, before the
High Court of Justiciary, on the 4th of November, 1823,
along with another boy, John Reid, who has since been respited,
for Breaking iuto the House at Summerfield, parish of South Leith,
occupied by Mr Alexander White, Merchant, upon the morning of
25th July last, and stealing therefrom a great quantity of Silver
Plate, Wearing Apparel, &c. aggravated by being habit and repute
a Thief. After a full aud fair investigation, this unfortunate lad,
and his neighbour, were, by an unanimous verdict of a respectable
Jury, both found Guilty, in terms of the libel, but on account of
youth strongly recommended to mercy.

During the trial the unfortunate Thomas Black was perfectly
composed, and maintained a careless indifference about his awful
situation; but, soon after his condemnation, he evinced a most
becoming sense of his melancholy situation, as well as the greatest
contrition for his dissolute habits of life. So much so, that a few
weeks before his execution, he requested to be indulged with a se-
parate cell, as the society of his companions in misery led to con-
versations on their former way of life, which served to interrupt
his more serious reflections, and to divert his mind from those im-
portant considerations which his awful situation was so powerfully
calculated to excite. A respite for his fellow-sufferer, as stated
above, was got fourteen days before, and it can be no impeachment
of the generosity of the heart of Black, or of the sincerity of his
repentance, to find that this act of mercy to another, awakened in
him all that love of life which had seemingly been extinguished for
ever. He sunk into a state of the most heartless despondency for
some time, and could neither think of the present nor of the future,
without the most agonizing feelings. Indeed, during two days he
scarcely tasted any food. His mind, however, was latterly restored
to its wonted tranquillity, and he expressed himself with calmness
and resignation on the subject of his approaching fate, an event to
which he had then looked forward as inevitable.

Accordingly, he was early removed to the Lock-up-House, where
he was waited on by several of his nearest relations, and the sepa-
ration from some of them was most appaling to the most hardened
feelings. The Clergy of the city, as well as the Chaplain of the
Jail, and other good Christians in town, were most attentive and
most earnest for his religious instruction and edification, which he
himself repeatedly and sincerely acknowledged.

He slept little or none on Tuesday evening, and the Clergyman
and officiating Magistrates waited on him in the Hall of the Lock- 
up-house, a little before Eight o'Clock on Wednesday morning,
when he joined most fervently in the devotional supplications put
up on that occasion. After which his arms were pinioned, and the
melancholy procession soon moved up, in a slow and solemn man-
ner, to the head of Libberton Wynd, attended by a strong detach-
ment of Police Officers. He appeared on the scaffold, decently
dressed, about half past eight o'clock, where a psalm was sung, in
which he joined, and a most impressive prayer put up for him to
the throne of mercy, by one of the Clergymen present; during
which he appeared most devout and attentive to what was so elo-
quently urged in his behalf. Having taken a solemn farewell of
those around him, he mounted the fatal drop, assisted by the Exe-
cutioner, where he appeared most fervent in prayer, while the rope
was adjusting round the beam. All things being prepared, and the
Executioner taking farewell of him, he shortly dropt the signal,
and was instantly launched into the world of spirits, a little before
nine o'clock.

We sincerely trust that the premature and shameful end of this
young man, who was only about seventeen years of age, be a warn-
ing to all who saw him, or heard of his awful fate.

Edinburgh, Printed for R. Forrest, Price One Penny.Execution at Perth.

An account of the Execution of HANS REGELSON, a Danish seaman, who was executed
in front of the Council-Room, Perth, on Friday the 28th of June, 1811, pursuant to
his sentence, for committing a Rape on Margaret Budge, of Burntisland, aged 17.—
Also, an account of his Behaviour on the Scaffold.

ON Friday Hans Regelson, the  danish
seaman, aged about twenty-five, who
Was capitally condemned, at the last Perth
Circuit, for a rape, committed on Margaret
Budge, of Burntisland, aged 17, was exe-
cuted at Perth, pursuant to his sentence.

The fate of this unhappy foreigner ex-
cited a very general sympathys and every at-
tention was paid him during his confine-
ment that could be bestowed on a person in
his situation, for which he seemed exceeding
grateful.

From the report of the Clergymen who
attended him, we are happy to hear he was
remarkably penitent and resigned. Indeed,
he could not but be convinced of the justice
of his sentence; for the Court, during his
trial supplied him with every lawful advan-
tage for his defence that possibly could be en-
joyed by a British subject—able counsel was
appointed for him, and every exculpatory
plea listened to with more than usual anxiety,
that the Jury, without a breach of duty,
might be enabled to acquit him.

On Friday morning he received the sa-
crament according to the forms of the
Church of England, which are nearly simi-
lar to those of the Lutherian Church, of
which he was a member.

He Came on the platform at the usual
hour, apparently firm and resigned, and be-
trayed no symptom of fear while the execu-
tioner was making the necessary arrange-
ments—not seemed to wish to delay his fate;
for, whenever the executioner left him, he
placed himself in a supplicating attitude,
dropped the fatal signal, and was immedi-
ately suspended.

The sympathy of the spectators for this
unfortunate foreigner was very apparent,

and they expressed their feelings when he
made his exit by a universal ejaculation of
pity, in a low and mournful tone of voice.

Early in the month of February laft, as a
Dragoon was on his return from duty, to his
quarters, a   small public- house, called. Bran-
dean Hut, in the forest, near Petersfield,
in Hampshire, (England) his attention was
arrested by the Cries of some person in distress,
which induced him to ride up to the spot
whence they proceeded, where his humanity
was shocked on beholding a woman tied to a
tree, with the tears, which her situation and
sufferings had produced, actually frozen to
her cheeks, and, shocking to relate. quite
naked, having been Stripped and robbed of
every article or her dress,by two villains,
who afterwards left her in that deplorable
condition. The Dragoon instantly cut the
cords that bound her hands and feet to the
tree; and having, in some measure, restored
to her the use of her limbs, by rubbing
them, wrapped her up in his cloak, placed
her on his horse, and proceeded to his
quarters, where he soon after arrived; and,
as he was conducting the shivering object of
his care into the house she looked through
a window that commanded a view of the
kitchen, suddenly shrunk back and in a
faint voice exclaimed, " there are the two
men that robbed me of my all, and used me
so cruelly!" The soldier, in consequence,
entered the kitchen, and secured the men,
who were the next day taken before a Magi-
strate; and, after the necessary examination,
committed to Winchester jail, for trial at the
next Assizes. The woman, we need hardly
say, was taken proper care of; and the Dra-
goon, we hope, will be properly rewarded
for his exertions in the cause of humanity
and justice.                                 

Printed by Thomas Duncan 159, Saltmarket,A correct and Particular Account of the Execution of
CHARLES M'EWEN, commonly called " The
Cock of the North," who was Hanged on Wednes-
day the 7th A April 1824, at the head of Libberton
Wynd,Edinburgh for the Barbarous Murder
Margaret Mooney, in October last, on a Moor in
Aberdeenshire and  his Body given for Dissection
with his Behaviour at the Place of Execution.

Edinburgh, 7th April, 1824.

THIS day, the unfortunate CHARLES M'EWEN, alias M'Eoch
and commonly known in the North of Scotland, by' the Cock of the North; 
ended his mortal career, on a scaffold, at the head of
Libberton Wynd here, pursuant to his sentence.

This unfortunate man was a native of Ireland, and assumed va-
rious names, as circumstances suited him, but was best known by
M'Ewen.   He left Ireland about ten years ago, and travelled principally 
in the counties of Forfar, Aberdeen, and Inverness, as a
Tinker, and vender of hardware, &c.    He had had various women
with whom he cohabited as man and wife, and had several children.
The unhappy woman, Margaret Mooney, had been with him only a
few days at the time of the murder. They were travelling together, on
the 9th of October last, through the Firmouth, an uninhabited moor
or mountain, near the junction of the shires of Aberdeen and For-
far ; and, as was proved on his trial, he deliberately murdered her
   in the most barbarous manner, by striking her on the head with a
small Iron Anvil, without any provocation whatever, in consequence
of which she died on the spot, and for which he was  soon after ap-
prehended.

Having emitted two several declarations before the Sheriff-sub-
stitutes of Aberdeenshire, in which he denied any knowledge of
the circumstance, except seeing the body lying all bloody as he
passed, he forced on his trial, by running his letters.    Accordingly
he was brought from Aberdeen Jail to Edinburgh, and tried before
the High Court of Justiciary, on the 1st of March last; and, after
the fullest investigation, was unanimously found Guilty by a res
pectable Jury.   After a most impressive address from the Lord
Justice Clerk, in which he recommended to him to employ the few
remaining days allowed him on earth, in the important works of
repentance, and to endeavour, by the deepest contrition and heart
felt sorrow for his past offences, to make his peace with that God
   against whom he had so heinously sinned, by the perpetration of a
crime, of all others the most foul and deteatable, he was sentenced
to be hanged by the hands of the common executioner, on  Wed-
nesday the 7th of April next, at the head of Libberton Wynd, be
twixt the hours of eight and ten in the morning, and his body there
after to be given to Dr. Alex. Monro, to be dissected and anatomiz. 
ed.    To which he immediately replied,  Thank your Lordship,
but I'll die innocent''.

During the whole trial, as well as the delivery of this address and
pronouncing the awful sentence, M'Ewen appeared quite firm and
hardened, nor had he, for a considerable time after his condemna
tion, evinced a becoming sense of his melancholy situation.   Neither
the certainty of the awful fate which was shortly to overtake him,
nor the reflections to which his crime and punishment were likely,
in solitude, to give rise, had produced any salutary impressions on
his mind ; but, on the contrary, seemed to repel any advances of
kindness from those about him.    To the inquiries of one gentleman
he abruptly replied, " I am not the better of you, nor any like
you."    To another gentleman, in an official situation, he betrayed
similar impatience, and haughtily expressed a wish that he might
not receive any more visits of such a nature.    As to the affair that
brought him there, he added, it was a matter that concerned himself
alone.    He was very restless, and continually moving to the extent
of the chain allowed him; in this respect differing from almost
every one who was placed in the like unhappy circumstances, while
others sought repose, or were sunk into despondency, he was ever
in motion.    Latterly, however, he entertained feelings better suited
to his situation.    He was a Catholic, and was regularly attended by
three clergymen of that persuasion, as well as by some private
friends. to whose exhortations, in a great measure, must have been
ascribed the great change in  his behaviour.
 He was a tall, stoutan, about thirty-six years of age.                                                 

Edinburgh ...Printed for AlexanderTurnbull...,Price One Penny.NoneNoneEXECUTION !

A Full and Particular Account of JOHN DEMP-
SEY, late Private Soldier in the 13th Regiment of
Infantry, who was Executed at Edinburgh, on Wed-
nesday morning, the 13th December, 1820, for Mur-
der, committed at Greenock, in July last, and his Bo-
dy given for Dissection ; including his Behaviour at
the place of Execution.

THIS unfortunate man, JOHN DEMPSEY, it will be recollect-
ed, was tried at Edinburgh, before the High Court of Juati-
ciary, on Monday the 6th of November last, along with four others,
all privates in the 13th Regiment of Foot, for the murder of Ro-
bert Simpson, Henry Pearson, and Arahibald Morison, who were
shot, in a squabble that took place at Greenock, very early in the
morning of the 31st day of July last, between them and a party of
sailors and others, After a very long and interesting crial, which
occupied the Court upwards of ninteen hours, Dempsey and Ro-
bert Surrage were both found Guilty of the murder of Simpson
and Pearson only, there being no direct proof as to the death of
Morrison, and sentenced to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day morning, the 13th December, 1820, between the hours of 8
and 10 o'clock, and their bodies to  be delivered over to the Profes-
sor of Anatomy for dissection; but the Jury unanimously recom-
mended Surrage to mercy, and the sentence passed upon him has
since been commuted into banishment for life. The other three,
after an impressive admonition, were dismirred from the her the
libel being found Not proven against them.

Dempsey and his companions were part of a detachment of the
13th Foot, stationed at Greenock for a short time last summer; and,
as appeared from the evidence at the trial, had been drinking together
till very late on the evening of the 30th July. On their way home
to their quarters, they fell in with some sailors and women, with
whom they had had some altercation, and immediately a mob col-
lected about them, when some severe blows were given and receiv-
ed on both sides. The soldiers then precipitately retired to their
lodgings, followed by the mob, and some of them were knocked
down before the door was opened. Upon gaining admission,. they
ran up stairs, and some of them soon appeared at a window, with
their firelocks in their hands, when several shots were fired, and the
three unfortunate men above mentioned were killed. The Guard
of the detachment arrived soon afterwards, and took the soldiers
immediately into custody.

Accordingly this unhappy man appeared very much affected when
the awful sentence of the law was pronounced against him, having
been solemnly assured that he need not expect any mitigation of
the punishment then awarded him. He was very penitent, and ap-
peared perfectly sensible of,as well as thankful for the kindness
and attention shewn him since his condemnation by several of the
clergymen of the City, as well as many "private individuals, and
particularly by the clergy and several other persons of his own re-
ligious persuasion residing in Edinburgh,  who  often visited him in
his solitary confinement He was a good looking young man, a rs-
tive of Ireland, apparently about twenty-five years of age, unmar-
ried we believe, and of the Roman Catholic Religion.

Edinburgh, 13th Dec. 1820.-—This morning, pursuant to his
sentence, John Dempsey was executed here, at the ordinary place
of execution, head of Libberton Wynd, Lawnmarket, opposite the
head of Bank Street. The unfortunate man, who was previously
waited upon, at the Lock-up-house, by two clergymen, where some
religious preparation had been made, was conducted up the Wynd tc
the scaffold, attended by the officiating Magistrates in their gowns,
preceded by their officers, accompanied by the Clerglymen, and
guarded by a strong detachment of Police officers, a little past
eight o'clock. After prayers, by one of the reverend gentlemen at-
tending, to whom he seemed to speak seriously for a short time, he
bowed respctfully to the magistrates, and shook hands with some
of those around him, and then mounted the drop, assisted by a
clergyman, where he continued for a few minutes in most earnest
and fervent prayer. He then exclaimed, " Gentlemen, I am inno-
cent of the crime charged against me," dropt the fetal signal, and
was instantly launched into eternity, about half past eight -' clock ;
amidst few spectators comparatively, owing to the earliness of  the
hour. After hanging the usual time, the body was cut down, and
sent to the College to be dissected.             

Edinburgh—Printed  for R.Watson,—PRICE ONE PENNY.EXECUTIONS  IN  PAISLEY.

With some of its observations on the infrequency of
these occurrences here the Glasgow Chronicle took oc-
casion to favour us last week. For the pains it takes in
gathering these scraps of local history, we would feel the
more grateful, were its information and accuracy in any
sort of proportion to its inclination to do us service. On
the subject of the eccentricities of our townsmen, and
the taste they may evince for these painful sights, the
journal in question may speculate at any length it likes,
and not be one whit nearer the truth than it often is on
subjects of more importance. But even on this point,
we scarcely think the inhabitants of Paisley shew a keen-
er relish than their neighbours. Judging from the num-
bers of draggle tailed sluts and dirty linened fellows who
crowded our streets on Thursday, it required no prophet
to tell us, that the City of St. Mungo had its thousands
tainted with this appetite for ghastly enjoyment, in quite
as perfect a degree as any living wight within the balidome
of St. Mirren could pretend to. Proud of its inadequate
knowledge, the Chronicle of Friday week thus repeats the
imperfect information it had communicated in a preceding
number:-"It may here be not uninteresting again to re-
capitulate the executions that have taken place in Paisley
since 1697. On the 15th June, in that year, 4 men and
3 women were burned on the Gallowgreen, for witch-
craft. In 68 years after, viz., on the 7th Nov. 1765, a
Glasgow fast day, a murderer of the name of Provan,
was executed on the same spot, and his right hand cut
off. On the 17th Aug. 1797, a period of 32 years after
the former, a man of the name of Potts, convicted of rob-
bery at Gryffe Castle, was executed at the market Cross;
and from that time to the present date, other 32 years
have elapsed."

The very little information the writer had on this sub-
ject, will be apparent by and by. A good natured
friend, with the view of supplying the deficiencies of this
statement in the Chronicle of Monday last, under the
designation of "an Inhabitant of Paisley," tells us that
" In 1685, during the tyrannical reign of James, it is
well known to all who are versant in the history of that
bloody period, that James Edgar and John Park suffered
at the Cross of Paisley for their firm adherence to the
sacred cause of civil and religious liberty.

"With regard to criminal cases, I have also to mention,
that sometime before the middle of the last century, a
man of the name of Robert Lyle, was executed at Pais-
ley for theft, and being habit and repute; and that a
few years afterwards, a man of the name of Love, who
resided and had property in the High Street, was exe-
cuted for the murder of his son, whom he stabbed with
a knife, in a fit of passion, when sitting with his family
at dinner."-Even the " inhabitant of Paisley" has
fallen into an error, by substituting Edgar for Algie, and
his notice respecting Lyle and Love is exceedingly vague,
inasmuch as it does not give the precise date when
these individuals were respectively gibbeted on the gal-
low green.

For the antiquarian lucubrations of the Chronicle and
its correspondents we have as much respect as they de-
serve, but the value of such pursuits depends so much
upon accuracy, that whenever we detect the slightest
departure from historical fidelity, or an unbecoming lack
of information, we may be excused for treating them
with something like contempt, more especially, when by
a little research, more facts, and greater accuracy, could
easily have been obtained.

Since on this subject our townsmen have evinced some
curiosity, we shall put them in possession of a few slight
notices, which have occurred to us in the course of our
enquiries. We may premise, that deficiencies in our Lo-
cal Registers, and in the Books of Adjournal, prevent us
from carrying these back to any thing approaching a
remote date.

From the declaration of W. Sutherland, contained in
the Appendix to Wodrow's History, Vol. I. it appears
that that individual was necessitated to officiate at the
execution of a witch in this town, in the year 1661.

In the year following, the parish of Innerkip was over-
run with a breed of witches, and their pranks became so
notorious, that a commission was issued (7th May 1622)
to certain noblemen and gentlemen of the county, to try
Mary Lamond, Katrine Scot, Janet Hynman, Margret
Leitch, Margret Rankine, Jean King, and Margaret
Duff, for " the horrid cryme of witchcraft, by committing
of malefices, or entering into pactiouns with the divell,
renuncing their baptisme or otherwayes, &c." Most of
these infatuated creatures pled guilty to the crimes of
which they were charged, and were convicted on their
own confessions, and doomed to death. Where they
suffered, does not appear; but as these courts, for the triai
of Witchcraft in this county, were usually held in Paisley,
it is likely they were, according to the received mode of
dispatching condemned witches and sorcerers,  "worryit,
(that is strangled) at a stake and brint" on the Gallow-
Green.

The Jail about that time was seldom without a witch
or warlock tenant, and as there was not then so much Jail
philanthropy abroad as in our day, many of these poor
and aged wretches died in the loathsome cells where they
were confined, some literally devoured by vermin, others
the victims of disease or of brutal usage. A witch dying
in prison here gives occasion for this curious entry in the
Records of the Town Council.

" 1667 Oct. 17. Whilk day the Baillies and Councill
having taken to their consideration the incivility and
indiscreit carriage of Mr Hugh Montgomerie, Sheriff
Depute of Renfrew, in permittiug the corpse of ane Janet
Finnie, ane suspect witch imprisoned be him in their Jail
and deceased therein, to be unhurried these fyve days by-
gone or thereby, and refusing absolutely to cause bury her
notwithstanding both his duty and their requiring of him,
so that they are necessitated to cause bury her, have
therefore determined that he shall be deprived of certain
favours he has from them, especially that he and his sons
shall have no liberty from henceforth to sit in any of the
Tounes Seats in the Churches, and for these reasons have
ordained their officers to hold them out of both their seats."

Though there is some uncertainty regarding the precise
number or the place of execution of the Innerkip witches,
none exists regarding those who suffered for bewitching
Sir George Maxwell of Pollok, and by devilish sorceries
tormenting him until he died.

Accordingly on the 20th Feb. 1677, we find that four
witches and a warlock were burnt at the Gallowgreen of

Paisley for this horrid crime. This case has been amply
enough detailed in various publications, and we will not
dwell longer on it than merely to mention the names of the
unfortunate creatures whose lives were sacrificed on the
gloomy altar of popular superstition. They were Janet
Mathie, Bessie Weir, Margaret Jackson, John Stewart,
Marjory Craig, and Annabel Stewart. " Annabel, the
maid witch among them, about the age of 14, albeit
penitent and confessing yet throw pitty was throw order
of the secret council reprieved from burning."

Of this execution, Mr Robert Law, minister of Kil-
patrick, in his Memorials, furnishes us with these details:-
" The four witches and warlock foresaid, that were burnt
at Paisley on the 20th February (for the young one was
reprieved for a tyme because of her age) dyed obduredly,
except the man, who appeared penitent, whose mother,
Jonat Mathie, was first hanged without any confession of
her guilt, and the effigies both of wax and clay being put
in a napkine and dashed in pieces, were thrown in the
fire with her. Her son and daughter confessed that when
the Devil appeared first to them in her house, that she
(their mother) called him a gentleman to them, and a good
man that would not hear the Lord's name mentioned, for
fear it should be taken in vain. There was also one Bessie
Weir hanged up, the last of the four (one that had been
taken before in Ireland, and was condemned to the fyre
for malefice before, and when the hangman there was about
to cast her over the gallows, the devill takes her away from
them out of their sight; her dittay was sent over here to
Scotland) who, at this tyme, when she was cast off the
gallows, there appears a raven, and approaches the hang-
man within an ell of him, and flyes away again. All the
people observed it and cried out at the sight of it!"

Feb. 3, 1685, James Algie and John Park were exe-
cuted for refusing to take the oath of abjuration. Betwixt
their sentence and its execution, only a few hours inter-
vened, for the inscription on their tombstone tells us, that
they were
	" At ten condemned, at two to die."
The tombstone lies on the ground, laid off for a church-
yard in Broomlands.

In 1687, we had another witch trial here; but whether
there were any convictions we have not had the means of
discovering.

We now come to the famous Bargarran case in which
some four and twenty individuals, male and female, were
implicated. One of these, Jean Fulton, an aged woman,
appears to have died in jail, and another, John Reid,
Smith in Inchinnan, succeeded in strangling himself in
the prison of Rentrew, and a third, Alexander Anderson,
also died in prison. On the 10th of June, 1697, three
men and four women were burned on the Gallowgreen,
for bewitching Christian Shaw, and being habit and repute
witches. The Chronicle, with its usual accuracy tells us
this was on the 15th of the month, and that there were
four men and three women. To obviate error, we may
mention that the men were John Lindsay in Barloch, alias
Bishop James Lindsay, alias Curate; both these had been
delatit witches in 1687, but got off through their in-
genuity ; and another man whose name has escaped our
memory. The women executed, were Margaret Lnng,
Katherine Campbell, Agnes Naismith, and Margaret
Fulton. It appears that the dress of the Sheriff of Ren-
frewshire was remarkably gay. On his visit to Christian
Shaw, he is described as wearing brown coloured clothes,
red plush breeches with black stripes, flowered muslin
cravat, and an embroidered sword belt.

In 1694 John, William, and Robert Jamieson, wea-
vers in Broomhead, were tried before the Sheriff for
sheep-stealing, housebreaking, theft, &c., two of them
assoilzied and one found guilty, who, in all likelihood
suffered a capital punishment, but the record from
which this notice is taken is unfortunately defective. On
the 28 Nov. 1700 James Laird, turner in Gorbals, was
hanged on the Gallowgreen of Paisley, by sentence of
Robert Sempill of Fullwood, Bailie-Depute of the Re-
gality. He was tried for stouthrieff, theft, &c.

28th March, 1717, Robert Lang, in Langbank, was
executed between the hours of two and four afternoon, on
the Gallowgreen of Paisley, for the theft of a gray horse,
which he had twice stolen, and was twice taken, as it is
technically styled, " with the fang." His Judge was
Robert Sempill, Sheriff-Depute.

September 2d, 1743, Robert Love, Messenger, was
hanged here for the murder of his own son.

27th December, 1753 Robert Lyle, in Culliochant,
parish of Kilbarchan, was hanged at the Gallowgreen be-
tween the hours of 10 and 3. He was tried before the
Sheriff for housebreaking and theft. He was familiarly
styled Rabbie Lyle. His executioner was a fellow pri-
soner, whose punishment, it is said, was remitted if he
would undertake that disagreeable office. To obtain
his liberty the fellow agreed, but did the thing so bung-
lingly, that it provoked the wrath of some native Satyrist,
who, in his rhymes, alleged that in turning off Lyle the 
Hangman broke his head in the first place, and his neck
afterwards.

The next who suffered on the Gallowgreen was the
detestable ruffian, Alexander Provan, for the murder of
his wife. The circumstances attending this murder are
shocking, and cannot be related. He was hanged on
the 7th Nov, 1765, his right hand having been previously
smitten off. According to tradition, the hangman,
through trepidation, severed his hand by the palm in-
stead of at the wrist, and Provan, with a dreadful
shriek, cried out " the tow, the tow, the tow." The
rope was immediately brought, and a termination put to
his sufferings. The axe used to back off his hand was
long kept as a relic, and shown as Provan's axe to those
curious in these matters.

Thomas Potts, an Irishman, was tried before the High
Court of Justiciary for housebreaking and robbery at
Gryffecastle, found guilty, and sentenced to be exe-
cuted at Paisley, on the 17th August 1797. A crane
was erected at the corner of the Tolbooth-the bats
which supported it are still to be seen in the walls of the
steeple-and on this he was suspended from half past
three till a quarter past four. Potts wrote a number of
letters, which were published after his death, and in
which he asserted his innocence of the crime for which he
was tried, but admitted the commission of others equally
bad. The same declaration he made on the scaffold.

These annals of the stake and gibber in Paisley, close
with the execution of Brown and Craig, in front of the
County Buildings, on Thursday the 29th ult.  Horrid  Murder

An Account of the Execution of Margaret Henderson,
an Interesting Young Woman of Eighteen years of
age, who was Executed at tke New Drop, London,
on Monday the 15th March 1824,for the Cruel and
Barbarous Murder of her male Bastard Child, by
Cutting its Throat, concealing it in her Bed room,
and afterwards Throwing its Mangled Body into the
Fire, where it was discovered nearly Burnt to Ashes,
by her fellow Servant, and her Body given for Dis-
section ; together with a very Affecting Letter
written to her Mother the night before her Execu-
tion.

OF all Murders that of a mother shedding the blood of her own
child is the most shocking. It is a matter of horror to re-
flect how human nature can be so debased; yet has duty often
tortured our feelings, in recording such abominable cases. To en-
deavour to amend the heart, and to deter others from crime, is the
account of our chronology, the very end of punishments.

Margaret Henderson was a native of the city of Durham, de-
scended from parents of repute, who having educated her in a very
decent manner, she went to London, and entered the service of a
genteel family. In a short time after she became acquainted with a
young man, and became pregnant, and committed the horrid mur-
der for which she suffered death. This unfortunate sufferer was
only 18 Years of age, and wrote the following verses under sen-
tence of death, as a caution to all young women.

Young lovers all, where'er you be,            
Draw near and listen awhile to me,       
You'll pity me when you hear my tele,     
 I write these verses in the gaol.             


In prison I am now confin'd,              
With guilty heart and troubl'd mind,     
For murder of the blackest dye,
My infant's blood for vengeance cry.   



The sixth commandment I have broke,  
O Lord, I fear thy vengeful stroke;    
We're told in scripture not to do so,        
Murder and adultery thou shall not do.  



Margaret Henderson's mv name,   
I'm brought to scandal, grief & shame.   
By putting trust in a false young man,
Ne'er thinking be would me trepan. 



We oft kept each others company,   
His discourse at first well pleased me,     
BUt shortly I did plainly see,
Twas only a design on me.   



My sins are great I must confess,  
From time to time I did transgress,
To this young man I soon became a prey,
 nd now I rest none night or day.

 On the 12th of February, an unlucky day,
 My own flesh and blood, I did slay,
      I cut its throat, the blood did flow,
   Then on the fire I did it throw.
    
  Before my God I shortly must appear,
 Where I shall meet my baby dear,
   Guilty at the bar I can only say,
       Lord, have mercy en my sol I pray.

  One night as in my cell I lay,
I thought there was a voice did say,
          These blessed words eas'd my mind,
   Seek mercy and thou'lt mercy find.

 O when that dreadful day shall come,
When I on earth receive my doom,
Good people, do pray for me
  That my Redeemer will set me free.

        When I am brought to the fatal tree,
Young women take advice by me,
         If by false men you deceiv'ed should be,
           From the crime of murder God keep yon free

The Night before the Execution she wrote the following LETTER

to her mother.

Dear Mother,                              Twelve o'clock, Sunday night.

I am sorry we could not have the liberty of a little
more time by ourselves when you came to take leave of me ; if we
had, I should have thought of many more things to say you than I
did; but then, I fear it would have caused more grief at our parting.
I am greatly concerned at being obliged to leave you, and muck
more in such a manner as to leave room for the world to reflect
upon you on my account; but none save the ignorant will, but ra-
ther pity your misfortune, being fully satisfied of your innocence
in every respect relating to the crime for which I am in a few hours
to suffer the last awful punishment of the law.

After I parted with you, I received the holy sacrament comfortab-
ly which the minister was so good as to administer to me, and who
has also several times before taken great pains to instruct me, and
so has some other one of his accquaintance, by whose assistance,
and my on endeavours, I hope God will pardon all my sins for
Ghrist's sake, and admit me into his heavenly kingdom.

I hope I will willingly submit to my fate, and die in peace. This
is all the comfort I can give you in this world, who dying, remains
your affectonate daughter,                               M, HENDERSON.

Edinburgh, Printed, for James Degherty, Price One Penny.LIVES & TRANSACTIONS

OF THE GILMERTON

MURDERerS,


DOBIE AND THOMSON.           

Full, True, and Particular Account of the Lives and Transactions of
David Dobie and John Thomson, the Gilmerton Murderers, toge-
ther with a very full and most correct account of their conduct and
declarations in the Lock-up-house, on the night before the Execu-
catioin, and on their last moments on the Scaffold, all extracted from
the Coura nt Newspaper,



      Lives and Transactious of David Dobie and

John Thomson

John Thomson Thomson was twenty one years of
age, and was a tall slender man, with a face
of little meaning ; he lost his father when he
was two years old, but was sent some years to
school, where he learned to read and write,
and to repeat  the Shorter Catechism of the
Church of Scotland, with the Scripture proofs,
this useful mannal had made little lmpression
on his mind, as he had long forgotten it.    At
a Sunday evening school, for religious instruc-
tion, he had been exercised in other tasks, but
apparently with little effect ; both he and his
campanion seem to have thought, that their
attendance at this school was a sufficient apol-
ogy for absence from public worship, and they
considered the exhortations, which they heard
there, as an equivalent to preaching.    Thom-
son at the age at twelve years, began to drive
a cart with yellow sand, an  article which, is
sold every morning in- the streets of  Edin
burgh, and he after wards became the  driver
of a cart with coals, which he was in the ha-
bit of retailing in small quantities among poor
people, who were unable to buy more than
hundred weight or two at a time.   While he
led this life, his chief companions were young
men of the same occupation, and for  some
years past he has associated more. with David 
Dobie  than with any other  person,  and has
been much addicted to  drinking. According
to his own statement, he  was always simple
and easily  led, and scarcely  ever had a good
advice from any person, with the exception of
his   mother.    On the fatal Saturday evening
when the crime was commited, he had been
drinking more than usual, and they would not
have seen the woman who   lost her life, if
Dobie  would have passed the public house
where she came up to them    She   had been
drinking much too.    The   particulars of the 
abominable atrocities, perpetrated in the dead
of night, he has never detailed, and though he 
has   sometimes   said   that  nobody   knew so
much of the transaction as himself, he has oc-
casionally hinted that the injuries might as
well have been inflicted by other hands than
either his or Dobie's.    He sometimes said that
Dobie was answerable only for the robbery ;
at, other   times he  said that this was not the
only   act of which   Dobie   was  guilty: bat
though he wag aware  that Dubie had offered
to become King's eviderice, he generally said    
that it was hard to take a man's life for  all
that cable had done.   Expressions sometimes
dropped from him, from which it might have
been inferred that he had bouad himself not    
to  reveal what he knew of Dobie's guilt
but his general remark was.  that it could do    
   no good now, and that the declarations said to    
have been made by the woman were in some.   
respects not true, and could not be correct, as    
she was so very drunk as to be  incapable of    
remembering any thing.    He  has never de-    
nied his own guilt, and he is said to have been   
employed,   almost   without intermission, in    
reading. the Scriptures and atherserious books,   
and in praying and singing psaims.

David Dobie was 26 years of age, and had    
a look of much greater acuteness than Thom- 
son.  When he was vary young his father had  
his arm shattered by the upsetting of his cart,    
necessary to be unfit for labour,  and  it was thus    
necessary that his numerous children should    
sooner work for their bread than they would   
other wise have done.    David, after he learned  
to read and.  write tolerably,  at the age  of    
right assisted his elder brother, who drove a   
cart with yellow sand.   In a few "years after-
wards be began to drive to drive coals, and he had  no   
oppertunity of making farther progress in    
education accept at an evening school occa-    
sonally   On the subject of the crime for   

which, he suffered, he had early given a state
ment, to which, however,  little credit can be
  given.   He said he knew little more than that

     Thomson had given him a tin box. which box
    Thomson, on the other hand, denied that he
    had. ever given him.    Two or three days after

the crime was committed, Dobie gave this box
to another man. stating that he had found  it,
About the same  time he spoke with  brutal
levity" to some of his companions of the vio-
lence which Thomson had committed.    How
far he was personally concerned in  this vio
lence can never be known,     As he was home
and in bed nearly an  hour  before , Thomson, 
he had prabably no hand in some of the incre-
dible outrange of of which the   wretched   female.
was the victim,   We purposely abstain from
the recital. of a variety of particulars with  re-
gard to Dobie  which it would be unprofitable
to detail.    His wife and children are objects,
of deep commiseration, and his parents, bro-
hers, and sisters, are not less to    

Dobie was a man of a frank and forward 
disposition, and, though fearless of offending
the feelings of others, he was often ready to ,
perform obliging and neighbourly officers

             EXECUTION

Yesterday  morning  thase   two  criminals    

suffered last punishment of the law, at the    

usual  place of execution,  for the atrocious    

 murder and  robbery of  Margaret   Paterson,     

committed on the road to Gilmerton in April     

last.    Thomson received the final visit from     

his relations on  Friday last,  and the  scene     

which took place was highly affecting.   Tues      

day night Dobie was   Visited   by his  brother     

and a friend.   The criminals were taken from     

the jail to the Lock-up house in a carriage on     

Tuesday afternoon,   About midnight they lay    

down, but did not sleep.    Before lying down     

Dobie wrote to his wife and  other   relations     

in which he exhorted   them to turn from the    

evil of their ways, and seek for mercy through     

the merits of a redeemer                                          

Thomson also wrote to his mother; his let-

ter was very laconic.     It merely  stated that     

he entertained hopes. of pardon  through  the     

merits of Jesus Christ, and bade her farewell,     

In the course of the night Thomson   washed     

his feet and legs, as he said that he might be    

more   confortable;   but   his  real  object  was     

different, and his companion seemed to under      
stand it, for he said,    Never wind  Jock, we

will be well enough   scrapit  i'  the  College.'    

This coarse expression is perhaps as good  an     

illustration of   Dobie's  character as can  be    

given.                                               

Shortly before six o'clock., the reverend  Dr
Lee am! Mr Porteous' were in attendance upon

the criminals.—-They both   exhibited  the ut      

mast firmness and resignation,  acknowledged     

the many sins of which they had been guilty,     

and   expressed   a sincere   hop'e  of salvation     

through the blood of Christ. After prayer and     

singing a hymn a basin of  tea was given to 

each:and at a quarter past Seven, they cams     

down stairs  and had their arms pinioned. on     

entering the apartment where the executioner     

was, Dobie looked   wildly  around, appeared     

much agita ed and immediately exclaimed ' I

thought we were going  up,' (meaning- to the     

scaffold)   To Thomson   he said,   ' I hope the     

Lord will  have  mercy  upon us  to which     

Thomson,   in rather an absent   manner, re-

sponded  I hope so—-Thomson was through    
but remarkably composed ; he appeared indif, 

serent to all worldly matters, and never utter      

ed a word, exceut in to questions asked;     

and these to generally answered by ' yes' or    

no ;   except in one  instance, when he said,     

I am as composed now as ever I was in my     
life.     Dobie on the contrary   was unusually     
restless and distured He inquired the hour.



and wished to ascertain how long they would
remain in the house. When the executioner
commenced pinioning them, each seemed
much interested in the fate of his companion ;

but they did not speak.

On entering the apartment where Dr Lee
and Mr Porteous: were, Dobie. in reply to a
question as to how he felt, The Lord,

I hope, has given me strength,'   When asked,
it they Wished any particular Psalm, Hymn, or
Paraphrase, Dobie answered that he wished
the Hymn beginning, 'The hour of my depar-
ture's come.'   It being mentioned that they
had just sang that Hymn up stairs, he said,
Well, any one you like best will do as welll
-sing the 51st Psalm,' This was accordingly
done, commencing with the words,  All mine
iniquities blot out ;' and both joined in sing-
ing,    Mr Porteous then prayed earnestly, the
criminals kneeling,    It was during this scene
that their feelings and  state of mind were 
most   strongly marked.     Thomson threw,
him self on his knees-covered his face with
his hands, and continued apparently anxiously'
responding to  the  petition  put up  in  his
behalf   bat not a sound  escaped  his  lips.
Dobie's conduct forced, on the Other hand, a    
complete contrast to the coolness, but not in-
difference, of Thomson. At some parts of the
prayer, particularly those wherein their state   
is fallen men-the situation of the village to
which they belonged, as being very wicked,
and the helpless condition of Dobie's widow
and children, were alluded to, occasionally a
deep groan involuntarily escaped him, or the
exclamation of ' Oh ay-eh, yes." Before the
prayer was concluded, he rose on one knee,
turaed half round,  and convulsively grasped

psalm book which he held between his
hands ; in fact, every movement of his body
and expression of his countenance conveyed,

language too striking to be misunderstood,
the impression that his mind was ill at ease—
that hit whole soul was awfully troubled.
They were then advised to pray by them-
selves, and both complied. Dobie prayed
load, calling for ' Help in this his day of
trouble;' ' that the Lord would not hide his
face from him, but be merciful, for he was a
great sinner ,' and similar emphatic Scriptural
expressions —Thomson was not heard to pray.
On rising they. both thanked the reverend
gentlemen for their, attention ; and Dobie said,
I hope our fate ,will be a warning to that
wicked place to which we belong !' To the
Governor of the Jail. Mr Rose, he said, ' will
you look after my poor wife and children ?'
and an answer in the affermative seemed. to
give him great relief.                                    

On the Magistrates being announced, they
rose, and declared themselves ready, and al-
most immediately thereafter proceeded to the
scaftold—Thomson being assisted by Mr Per-
teoas and Thomson by Dr Lee.    When they
ached Libberton's Wynd, a sort of buzzing
noise was heard from the crowd in the Lawn-
market l; this, scemed to affect  Dobie much,
and or Black procured him a glass of water,
which he drank eagerly.   (When on the drop
he again called for water,  which was given   
him)    On the platform, a portion of the 40  h
Psalm was sung, and Dr  Lee prayed    The
criminals then took their places on the drop-
the ropes were adjusted, and they prayed for
some minutes.    In answer to a question put     

to Thomson, He said that his sentence was just
and proper ; and Dobie at the same time said
I do not deny my guilt.'     Having bidden
farewell to those around them,   Dobie asked
Thomson if he was ready, to which  question
the latter instantly  replied,   ' I am  ready,'       
and the former giving the signal, the drop self-.
Thomson struggled more than his companion,
but a either appeared to suffer long.MURDER

A Full and Particular Account of the Life, Transactions, Con-
fessions, and Behaviour of MARGARET DAVIDSON, who was
Executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 8th October 1830, for
the most atrocious and inhuman Murder of her Husband, by
pouring Poison down his throat while asleep, and her Body
afterwards given for Dissection.

ABERDEEN, 8th October 1830.....This day,  Margaret Davidson, who was
found guilty at  the last  Circuit Court of Justiciary in this city, under-
went the last sentence of the law for the murder of her husband, by poison.

This unfortunate woman may be considered one of the most wicked that ever
disgraced a civilized country.    It appears she  laid the plan, that plan which
brought her to this untimely fate, several years ago , although she had it not in
her power to do the deed, she was a woman of a savage nature, and deeply in-
volved with jealousy and revenge against her poor deluded husband; she had
often threatened for to take his life, although the poor man never  thought that
she would have put her threats in execution.    She perpetrated this crime in the
most treacherous manner; while he was asleep, and his mouth open, she poured
down his throat the deadly draught, which held him in the utmost torture, till
death put an end to his sufferings.    It fills the breast with the greatest horror,
to think how deliberately she committed the crime ; and every person of feeling
shudders at the bare recital.    At her trial she plead Not Guilty, with the greatest
confidence that she would not be convicted, but God who saw all her transac-
tions, brought it to light.    The evidence clearly proved that she had murdered
her husband.    Shortly after she received the sentence of death, she began to re-
flect on her wickedness, and in presence of two Clergymen,  she made  the fol-
lowing confession :—" I am the persen that murdered my husband, by adminis-
tering vitriol, which occasioned his death; it was  nothing  but jealousy which
caused me to commit the crime ; I had it in my heart two years ago for to mur-
der him, but I always thought to get some other person to do it, in order that my
hands might not be stained with his blood.    My sentence is just, I  deserve to
die for what I have done.    The temptations of the devil has been  strong in
me when I committed such a crime.    I  hope my fate will  prove a warning to
every person, particularly  women, not to follow my example, and deep from
jealously and revenge"

During her imprisonment she seemed for to be but little affected for what she
had done ; she was frequently waited on by different Ministers, who endea-
voured to bring her to a sense of her awful situation, their spiritual advices she
very thankfully acknowleged. She was visited by some of her relatives a few
days before her execution, and their parting scene was truly affecting. She
wrote the following letter to Mr F-----—n :—" I let you know that I am quite
resigned to my fate, and oh ! that you and all my acquaintance may take warn-
ing by me a wicked wretch, now a disgrace to my friends and relations; I have
been too late in taking a thought of myself; keep holy the Lord's day, and ne-
ver be led into any of the crimes which has proved my ruin ;—adieu, MAR-
GARLT DAVIDSON."

THE EXECUTION.

At an early hour on Friday morning, the unfortunate culprit was waited on
by two Clergymen, who had  brought her to reflect  on  her  wicked  state, and
to make preparations for another world ; after  spending some time in prayer,
the Rev.Gentlemen left her, and returned shortly after.    In a few minutes past two
o'clock, the Magistrates,with their proper attendants, entered the Hall, and shortly
afterwards proceeded to the scaffold ; a most fervent prayer being offered up in
her behalf, and a Psalm being sung, she then replied to the Clergymen and all
present, that her sentence was just, and that she richly deserved the punishment,
after shaking hands with every one around her, she mounted the fatal Drop ;
she was seen praying very earnestly for some time ; she then dropt the signal and was launched into
Eternity amidst an immense multitude of spectators from various parts of the country ; her body, af-
ter hanging about half an hour was cut down and delivered over to the Surgeons for Dissection. On
this melancholy creature no one seemed to be sorry for her fate, but looked on at the awful spectacle
with indifference, and shewed no marks of compassion.

Printed by Robertson and Co.....Price One Penny.PENITENCE !



An excellent Form of a PRAYER, said to have been
aften used by the unfortunate JAMES Gow, Shoe-
maker, who was Executed yesterday, Friday the
2d of December 1831, for the Murder of his, Wife,
and whose Body was delivered to Dr. Munro for
dissection, since his condemnation.

James Gow, shoemaker, who was executed yester, with his fel-
low sufferer, Thomas Beveridge, blacksmith, both for the same
crime, namely, that of killing their wives, was very penitent, and
acknowledged the justness of his sentence, not only at his trial, but
on the scaffold, before the officiating magistrates. The following
prayer being often repeated, and his last words on this earth were,
" Lord have mercy on our souls ; Lord, receive our souls."

O LORD, Almighty God of our Fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob, and of their righteous seed, who hast made heaven
and earth, with all the ornament thereof; who hast bound the sea
by the word of the commandment; who hast shut up the deep, and
sealed it by thy terrible and glorious name; whom all men fear
and tremble before thy power; for the majesty of thy glory cannot
be borne, and thine angry threatening towards sinners is importa-
ble ; but thy merciful promise is unmeasurable and nnsearch.
able; for thou art the most high Lord, of great compassion, long,
suffering, very merciful, and repented of the evils of men. Thou
O  Lord, according to thy great goodness, has promised repentance,
and for giveness  to them  that have sinned against thee; and of
thine infinite mercies hast appointed repentance unto sinners, that
they may be saved.    Thou therefore, O Lord, that art the God of
the just, hast not appointed repentance to the just, as to Abraham,
and Isaac, and Jacob, which have not sinned against thee; but thou
hast appointed repentance  unto  me that am a sinner ; for I have
sinned above the number of the sands of the sea.    My transgres-
sions, O Lord, are multiplied; my transgressions  are multiplied,
and I am not worthy to behold and see the height of heaven for the
multitude of mine iniqueties.    I am bowed down with  many iron
bands, that I cannot life up mine head, neither have any release ; for

I  have provoked thy wrath, and done evil before thee; I did not thy
will, neither kept I thy commandments : I have set up abominations,
and have multiplied offences.    Now therefore I bow the knee of
mine heart, beseeching thee of grace.    I have sinned, O Lord, I
have sinned, and I acknowledge mine iniquities : wherefore, I hum-
bly beseech thee, forgive me, O Lord, forgive me, and destroy me
not with mine iniquties.   Be not angry with me forever, by reserv-
ing evil for me; neither condemn me into the lower parts of the
earth.    For thou art the God, even the God of them that repent:
and in me thou wilt shew all thy goodness, for thou wilt save me
that am unworthy, according to thy great mercy.    Therefore I will
praise thee for ever all the days of my live: for all the powers of
the heavens do praise thee, and thine is the glory for ever and ever.
AMEN.

          PRICE ONE PENNY.

 SECOND EDITION.

AND COW'S ACCOUNT TO BAILIE HAIG  ON THE

SCAFFOLD.

EXECUTION



Full, true and Correct   Account of the Execu-
tion of James Gow, shoemaker, residing in Bull's
Turnpike Stair,  High Street,  and  Thomas  Be-
veridge,   blacksmith,    residing   in   Little   Jack's
Close,   Canongate, who  was executed this day.
the 2d of December, for the cruel and  bloody
murder of their wives ; also an account of the
way in which those diabolical murderers com-
mitted the attrocious deeds.

                                    

This day, Thomas Beveridge, blacksmith, lately residing
in Little Jack's Close, Canongate and James Cow, shoe
maker, lately residing in Bull's Turnpike Stair, High Street,
underwent the extreme penalty of the law at the head of
Libberton's Wynd, this morning, for the cruel and unnatural
murder of their wives.

As usual, on such occasions, a great concourse of people
were assembled, as great if not greater than on any other
several occasions, probably from the novelty to two men being
both brought to the scaffold at one time for the taking the
lives of their wives.

Beveridge, who our readers  will  recollect, was convinced
of having maltreated his wife, Janet with a poker, a shovel
and a knife, in   their  own house, on Sunday evening   the
2d of October,  which  caused  her death the same evening
This unfortunate culprit  has  left  three  children   to mourn
his uutimely fate ; the eldest  is a girl only about 7 years of
age. Since his condemnation he has been extremely penitent,
after he received sentence he   was taken   to the  Lock up
House, to wait the  arrival of the  caravan, to convey them
to the Jail.

Beveridge was convicted on the evidence of a number of
witnesses, and James Gray, who is a decent looking trade-
man, was charged with prevarication, and attempting to con
ceal the truth, as an example to others, the Lord Justice
Clerk, after admonishing Gray, sentenced him to 3 callender
months in Jail,

Since the confinement of those unfortunate culprit, their
behaviour has been  becoming to  their awful and miserable
situation, in which they are  placed, through  the most cra[ ]
and bad conduct towards their wives.

Gow, after he received his sentence, and in the Lock up
House, he addressed the turnkey, the game is up, all is over,
after a short time he stated to his fellow prisoners that his
wife has put on a iron ring on his leg, but he put a gold
ring on her finger.

James Gow was a native of Dalkeith,, but has resided in Edinbargh a
number of years. Thomas Beveridge is a  native of Kirkcaldy. and gaafe
to Edinburgh in search of work some years ago,

About a quarter past  eight the mournful procession moved towards the
Head of Libberton's Wynd. the culprits  appeared to be very penitent.  Be-
veridge appeared  to be very  weak,  but both with a firm step, they  were
both attended to the place of execution by the Clergymen.     Both joined
prayar most servently,and singed a psalm, both acknowledged the justness
of their sentence.Gow  step'd forward   to   Bailie  Haig, and said   none
could regret his awful situation more than he, if wives  were  to keep home
and make the houses  of their  husbands  more agreeable, such  things never
could occur ;  he hoped his  honour would make this  public, as  a caution
all; the sure way to make a good  husband, is so be a good  wife.     He died
in peace with   all   men, and  both acknowledged the again justness  of their
sentence, and died  in peace with all men.

After being tied up with the halter about their neck, and night caps put
over their eyes the unhappy men shook hands, Gow exclamed and with
an audible voice, Lord have mercy on our souls, Lord receive our soul.
the handkerchief was then drops, and they were launched into eternity.
neither struggled much.

FORBES & Co. Printers, 171, Cowgate                            

            THE GILMERTON   MURDERERS,   &C.    



A Sketch of the Conduct, Transactions and Behaviour of DAVID DOBBIE and JOHN THOMSON, who were 
Executed on  Wednesday the 18th August 183O, for Assault; Murder and Robbery, with their Last Dying
Confession, and Behaviour on the Scaffold, &c.                                         EXECUTION.

THE nature of the horrible and disgust-
ing crimes for which these unfortunate
men suffered, is too well known to require
recapitulation here. After a trial which
lasted sixteen hours, they were unanimously
found guilty of robbery, assault, with intent
to ravish, and murder, and sentenced to be
executed on the 18th August 1830, and their
bodies to be given for dissection, when Do-
bie immediately exclaimed,  My Lord, it's
a grand thing ye canna disseck the soul ?'

They were confined in the same cell, and
were punctually and constantly attended
upon by the Rev. Dr. Lee and Mr Porteous.
Though they behaved quiet enough to one
another before their trial, they, immediately
after their condemnation, began to reflect on
one another very bitterly ; so much so in-
deed, that they were ultimately confined in
separate cells.

David Dobbie was 26 years of age, and
bad a look of much greater acuteness than
Thomson; when he was very young,his father
had his arm shattered by the upsetting of a
cart, so as to be unfit for labour, and it was
thus necessary that his numerons children
should sooner work for their bread than they
would otherwise have done. David, after he
learned to read and write tolerably, at the
age of eight, assisted his elder brother, who
drove a cart with yellow sand. In a few years
afterwards, he began to drive coals, and he
hadno opportunity of makingfurther progress
in his education, except at an evening school
occasionally. On the subject of the crime for
which he suffered, he had early given a state-
ment, to which, however, little credit can be
given. He said that he knew little more than
that Thomson had given him a tin box,
which box Thomson, on the other hand, deni-
ed that he had ever given him. Two or three
days after the crime was committed, Dobbie
gave this box to another man, stating that
he Lad found it. About the same time he
spoke with brutal levity to some of his com-
panions of the violence which Thomson had
committed. How far he was personally
concerned in this violence can never be
known. As he was home and in bed nearly
an hour before Thomson he had probably
no hand in some of the incredible outrages
of which the wretched female was the victim.
His wife and children are objects of deep
commiseration, and his parents, brothers,
and sisters, are not less so. Dobbie was a
man of a frank and forward dispositon, and,
though fearless of offending the feelings of
others, was often ready to perfom obliging
and neighbourly offices.

John Thomson was 21 years of age, and
was a tall slender man, with a face of little
meaning; he lost his father when he was 2

years old, but was sent some years to school,
where he learned to read and write, and to
repeat the Shorter Gatechism of the Church
of Scotland, with the Scripture proofs; this
useful manual had made little impression on
his mind, as he had long forgotten it. At a
Sunday evening school, for religous instruc-
tion, he had been exercised in other tasks,
but apparently with little effect; both he and
his companion seem to have thought, tha:
their attendance at this school was a suffici-
ent apology for absence from public worship,
and they considered the exhortations, which
they heard there, as an equivalent to preach-
ing. Thomson, at the age of 12 years, be-
gan to drive a cart with yellow sand, and he
afterwards became the driver of a cart with
coals, which he was in the habit of retailing
in small quantities among poor people, who
were unable to buy more than a hundred
weight or two at a time. While he led this
life, his chief companions were young men
of the same occupation, and for some years
past he has associated more with David Dob-
bie than with any other person, and has been
much addicted to drinking. According to
his own statement, he was always simple and
easy led, and scarcely ever had a good advice
from any person, with the exception of his
mother. On the fatal Saturday evening, when
the crime was committed, he had been drink-
ing more than usual, and they would not
have seen the woman who lost her life, if
Dobbie would have passed the public-house
where she came up to them. She had been
drinking much too. The atrocities, perpetrated
in the dead of night he has never detailed, and
though he has sometimes said that nobody
knew so much of the transaction as himself,
he has occasionally hinted that the injuries
might as well been inflicted by other hands
than either his or Debbie's. He sometimes
said that Dobbie was answerable only for the
robbery; at other times he said that this was
not the only act of which Dobbie was guilty ;
but though he was aware that Dobbie had
offered to become King's evidence, he general-
ly said that it was hard to take a man's life for
all that Dobbie had done. Expressions some-
times dropped from him, from which it
might have been inferred that he had bound
himself not to reveal what he knew of Dob-
bie's guilt,—but his general remark was,
that it could do no good now, and that the
declarations said to have been made by the
woman were in some respects not true, and
could not be correct, as she was so very
drunk" as to be incapable of remembering
any thing. He has never denied his guilt,
and he is said to have been employed, almost
without intermission, in reading the Scrip-
tures and ohter serious books, and in pray-
ing and singing psalms.

M A R G A R E T  PA T E R S O N,
Their unfortunate victim.

The crowd assembled to witness the exe-
cution was fully as great as on any similar
occasion for these several years; but there
was no shouting nor other indication of po-
pular feeling displayed. There was a great
number of people from the country present.

Yesterday morning these two criminals
suffered the last punishment of the law, at
the usual place of execution, for the atrocious
murder and robbery of Margaret Paterson,
committed on the road to Gilmerton in April
last. We scarcely recollect any person in
the situation of Dobie and Thomson, whose
fate has excited less commiseration. The
nature of the crimes for which they stood
accused almost precluded any feeling of pity;
and the magistrates, from a praiseworthy de-
sire that their names and infamy should die.
with them, refused access to all but relatives
and official persons. Thomson received the
final visit from his relatives on Friday last.
and the scene was highly affecting. Tues-
day night Dobbie was visited by his brother
and a friend. The criminals were taken from
the jail to the Lock-up-house in a carriage
on Tuesday afternoon about five o'clock, and
spent the evening in reading and devotional
exercises. About midnight they lay down,
but did not sleep. Before lying down Dob-
bie wrote to his wife and other relations, in
which he exhorted them to turn from the
evil of their ways, and seek for mercy through
the merits of the Redeemer. Thomson also
wrote to his mother ; his letter was very la-
conic. It merely stared that he entertained
hopes of pardon through the merits of Jesus
Christ, and bade her farewell. In the course
of the night Thomson washed his feet and
legs, as he said it might be more comfort-
able ; but his real object was different, and
his companion seemed to understand it, for
he said " Never mind, Jock, we will be well
enough scrapit in the College." This coarse
expression is perhaps as good an illustration
of Dobbie's character as can be given.

Shortly before six o'clock, the reverend
Dr. Lee and Mr Porteous were in attendance
upon the criminals.—They both exhibited
the utmost firmness and resignation, acknow-
ledged the many sins of which they had
been guilty, and expressed a sincere hope of
salvation through the blood of Christ. After
prayer and singing a hymn, a basin of tea
was given to each, and at a quarter past
seven, they came down stairs, and had their
arms pinioned. On entering the apartment
where the executioner was, Dobbie looked
wildly around, appeared much agitated, and
immediately exclaimed,  I thought we were
going up," (meaning to the scaffold). To
Thomson he said, " 1 hope the Lord will
have mercy upon us!" to which Thomson,
in rather an absent manner, responded, " I
hope so."—Thomson was throughout re-
markably composed ; he appeared indifferent
to all worldly matters, and never uttered a
word, except to questions asked ; and these
he generally answered by " Yes" or " No."
except in one instance, when she said, " I am
as composed now as ever I was in my life."
Dobbie, on the contrary, was unusally rest-
less and disturbed. He inquired the hour,
and wished to ascertain how long they would
remain in the house. When the executioner
commenced pinioning them, each seemed
much interested in the fate of his companion
—hut they did not speak. On entering the
apartment where Dr Lee and Mr Porteous
were, Dobbie in reply to a question as to
how he felt, said, " The Lord, I hope, has
given me strength.'' When asked, if they
wished any particular Psalrn, Hynm or Par-
aphrase, to be sung, Dobbie answered that
he wished the Hymn beginning " The hour
of my departure's come." It being mention-
ed that they had just sung that hymn up
stairs, he said, " Well, any one you like best


will do as well....sing the 51st Psalm." This
was done accordingly, commencing with the
words, " AM mine iniquities blot out;" and 
both joined in singing. Mr Porteous then
prayed earnestly, the criminals kneeling. It
was during this scene that their feelings and
state of mind were most strongly marked....
Thomson threw himself on his knees...co-
vered his face with his hands, and continued
apparently anxiously responding to the pe-
tition put up on his behalf, but not a sound
escaped his lips. Dobbie's conduct formed,
on the other hand, a complete contrast to the
coolness, but not indifference, of Thomson.
At some parts of the prayer, particularly
those wherein their state as fallen men....the
situation of the village to which they belong-
ed, as being very wicked, and the helpless
condition of Dobbie's widow and children,
were alluded to, occasionally a deep groan
involuntarily escaped him, or the exclamation
of " Oh ay —eh yes!" Before the prayer
was concluded, he rose on one knee, turned
half round, and convulsively grasped a psalm
book, which he held between his hands ; in
fact, every movement of his body and ex-
pression of his countenance conveyed, in
language too striking to be misunderstood, 
the impression that his mind was ill at ease
—that his whole soul was awfully troubled.
They were then advised to pray by them-
selves, and both complied. Dobbie prayed
aloud, calling for " Help in this day of trou-
ble ;" " that the Lord would not hide Ms
face from him, but be merciful, for he was a
great sinner ;'' and similar emphatic Scrip-
tural expressions.—Thomson was not heard
to pray. On rising, they both thanked the
reverend gentlemen for their attention ; and
Dobbie said, " I hope our fate will be a
warning to that wicked place to which we
belong !'' To the Governor of the Jail, Mr
Rose, he said, " Will you look after my poor
wife and children ?" and an answer in the, .
affirmative seemed to give him great relief.
The condition of his family, we understand,
has preyed heavily on his mind. He again
returned to devotional exercises.

On the magistrates, Bailies Morton and
Anderson, being announced, both criminals
arose, and declared themselves ready; and
almost immediately thereafter proceeded to
the scaffold — Thomson being assisted by
Mr Porteous, and Dobbie by Dr Lee. When
they reached Libberton Wynd, a sort of buz-
zing noise was heard from the crowd in the
Lawnmarket; this seemed to affect Dobbie
much, and Dr Black procured him a glass of
water, which he drank eagerly." (When on
the drop he again called for water, which
was given him.) On the platform, a portion
of the 40th psalm was sung, and Dr. Lee
prayed. The criminals then took their places
on the drop....the ropes were adjusted, and
they prayed for some minutes. In answer
to a question put to Thomson, he said his
sentence was just and proper; and Dobbie
at the same time said, " I do not deny my
guilt.'' Having bidden farewell to those
around them, Dobbie asked Thomson if he
was ready, to which the latter instantly re-
plied, " I am ready," and the former giving
the signal, the drop fell. Thomson strug-
gled more than his companion, but neither
appeared to suffer long.

After hanging the usual time, the bodies
were lowered down, and conveyed to the
Lock-up-house, previous to being delivered
to the Professor of Anatomy.

PRICE THREE-HALFPENCE. THE              26

Highland Man's Lament,

For the Death  of Donald Bayn, alias M'evan Vanifranck, who was Execute in
the Grass Market of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 9th Day of Jannary 1723.

Tonald Bayn her nane dear Shoy,
Maks a' Folk sad save Robin Roy.
Who kend him sin he was a Boy,
hernane sell Swons,
To think he'd hangs like Gilderoy,
by Laulan Louns.
Ohon, ohon, for Land of Rese,
Sin Tonald's hang'd for common Theif,
Not on kind Gallows at the Crief,  
indeef no fair,
Pra Shentlemen her nane sels Cheif,
did a hing there,
Teel spread his Net out o're them a,
That took stout Tonald's Life awa,
And Troun them in the Wel of Spa
or Peterhead,
Shame fa the feckless Lauthian Law.
for now he's dead.
By great St. Patricks Sauts he swears,
While either Targe or Trous she wears,
The Clans shall fall out by the Ears,
without a Cure,
For dinny think her nane sel sears,
a Shirrif-muir.
May Bess   at   Hame ne're pear te pairn,
Hen lay the Egg, or Mage steal Yarn,
Or Alaster lift Cows from  Nairn,
but the Monro's,
By weight of her Claemore shall learn,
to ken their Foes.
And by te Panes of K. M duff,
Te Frasers shall get sik a cuff,
We'l bray them a' as sma as Snuff,
bloody-battle,
Syne her nane sell will gang and Truff,
a' their Cattle.
But Robin Roy, she fears ye will,
Ne're smell Powder, but stand still, 
And see her pread Sword hack and kill,
mony Hunder.
Syne came scouring down the Hill,
for the Plunder.
Donald and her, for mony a Day,
Eat Kebbecks, and drank Huskiebae;
And syne took up te Trumps to play,
Mcferson' s Rant.
Wee liv'd as blyth as the Lord Gray.
or Laird of Grant.
Throu Murray-Land, and Huntly Heth,
We chas'd the Gypsies out of Breath
Put them and Tinklers a' to Death,
and spoil'd their Carcks:
The Chapmen sand our Highland Wrath,
we toom'd their Packs.

Whan Mar her nane sells King did press,
Men for to take in Imverness,
We lifted the Excise and Cess,
gae Swiss their Paiks.
The Tutch, so frighted with our Dress,
got hearty Straiks.
For to meet him, it was nae Mows,
He was the warst of Worrie-Cows,
Rob Roy's Heart fell in the Hows,
when he saw him.
They parted ay we' bloody Pows,
he was so slim.
Twenty Thousand Merks in Gold,
Robin o're a Green Truff told
To twa M Grigors that were bold,
for to buy Cows,
But she Trous Donald, did lay hold
upon their Trows.
For he fleg'd that M' Grigor Crew,
Fast frae Tonald's Claws they flew ;
Tonald and Alaster he flew,
ne're Lochkater:
Took a' their Gear, and them he threw,
in a Water.
Pe sure, her nane sell never saw,
Te' Man tat valued less to Law,
For he gae Folk, cald Coals to blaw,
which gard them groan.
And when he carried all away.
cry' d Pockmohon.
Te like of this did ne're befal us,
Tonald as stout as William Wallace,
Was guarded by, te  Southland Fallows,
her Heart will plead.
For his pare Arse to grace the Gallows
and now he's tead.
May her sell ne're trip Athol Hill,
Nor never see the Sneizing Mill;
Nortrink of Huskiebae a Gill,
or wear te Durk;
If the Monro's she doe not kill,
and Fight like Turk 
M'cleods, M'tonalds and M' panes,
And a te M's tat kend him anes,
Hing toun te Head, and mak great Mains,
we' Cronohs sair.
For Tonald' s can Pelow te Stanes,
we ill cou'd spare.
Te Clans will make te firy fery,
Frae Fokoburss to Inverary,
And frae Glensheils doun to Glengary,
for Tonald Bayn,
I fear te Plots will a' miscarry,
sin Tonald's gane.

FINIS.          THE LIFE OF CALCRAFT •

AN ACCOUNT OF THE EXECUTIONS IN SCOTLAND
FOR THE PAST 200 YEARS



DUMBARTON.

                                                            Date of Execution

Murdoch Currie, theft, - - June 14,1751
Patrick Lunaay. murder, - - Jany. 18, 186l
WILLIAM CALCRAFT, the general executioner of
Great Britain and who officiated at Dumbarton on the
18th Jan 1861, was born in theyear 1801, of humble
but industrious parents, in a little village about ten miles
from London, situated in the county of Essex. When 19
years of age he was appointed to the office of Newgate
Hangman, and on being installed swore to the following
oath—" I'swear to hang or belad, and  to draw and
quarter, or otherwise destroy all felons and enemies to
the peace of our Lord the King, and of his subjects, duly
sentenced according to law; and I will do the like unto
father or mother, sister or brother, and all other kindred   
whatsoever, without favour or hindrance. So help me
God.

Thereupon a black veil is throw over him at his rising.,
when he is conducted out of the court, amid the groaning
of the assemblage. the tolling of the death-bell, and the
horrifying words of the city jude grating in his ears,
"Get thee hence, wretch!"

The hall in which the oath is ministered contains a
table with the following article placed thereon:—An
axe well sharpened I-the same at that used for the be-
heading of traitors- a pair of leg-irons-handcuffs and 
other fetters-a small coil of rope-a pair of white caps.

GLASGOW.      

At the Howgate Head, where the Monkland Canal Basin 
is now situated 

Date of Execution

Hugh Bisland, robbery -  - July 10, 1765
Agnes Dougal murder    -     -  Nov.       1,   67
Andrew  Marshall.murder, hanged in chains,Oct. 25, 70 
Wm. Mitchell and Chas. Gordon robbery, Nov. 17, 73
George M'Taggart, housebreaking &c. June 21, 76

Date of Execution.

Robert Hislop, housebreaking, &c -        June   6, 1781
At the Castle Yard, where the Royal Infirmary now      
stands
James Jack, robbery  June 7, 1784
James and William Brodie and Je Scott,
housebreaking,                -         -        Nov.   7,     84
Neil M'Lean, forgery             -                June   1,     85
David Stiven, murder            -         -        June   3,     85
Thomas Vernon, robbery       -         -        Nov.   9,     85
James Spence housebreaking and theft,     June   7,     86
Elizabeth, Paul housebreaking and theft, Oct. 25,    86
John M'Aulay, ThomasVeitch, and Thos
Gentles, robbery            -       -       May 28,     86

At the Cro
Walter M'Intosh, robbery     -                Oct. 22, 1788
William Scott, housebreaking and theft —
This criminal was tried & condemned
by the Sheriff    -           -       -       Dec.   3,     88

John Brown, forgery             -        -       June   9,     90
James Day, murder  -            -        -        Oct.  20,     90
James Plunket, robbery       -       -       Jan. 11,     92
James Dick  murder,             -        -        May  16,     92
Mortimer Collins, murder - - Nov. 7,     92
Agnes White, murder, and Jas. Kenzie,
robbery             -           -        -        May 22,     92
James M'Kean, murder         -                 Jan   25,     97
John M'millan. murder         -        -        May  16,     98
Peter  Gray hame sucken,,       -        -        May 28,  1800
William Cunningham, theft -         -        June   8,     03
David Scott and Hugh Adamsoforgery, June   5,     06
Adam Cox, murder -            -        -        June 10,     07
James Gilchrist, murder - -           July 20,     08
John Gordon M'Intosh &. GeorgStewart.
housebreaking   -            -        -        Nov.   8,     09
James Ferguson robbery      -        -        May 16,     13
W   Muir and W. Mudie, robbery   -       Nov. 17,     13

In front of the N Prison.

Wm. Higgins and Thos. Haroldobbery    Oct.   10.  1814
John Sherry, robbery                -    -        Nov   8.          15
William  M'Kay, forgery        -      -       May 28,     15

Date of Execution
Freeharm   Whitehill,   robbery,   William
M'Keohnie  and  James   M'Cormick,
housebreaking and theft.             -        Oct.  29, 1817

William Baird ami Walter Blair, robbery, June 3,     18
Matthew Clydesdale, murder, and Simon
Ross, Housebreaking   -   - Nov. 4, 18 

A.  Robertson, housebreaking and theft.     April   7,      19
B,  M'Kinlay, H. Guthrie. J  Forbes, & W.
Buchanan, housebreaking and theft,   Nov.   8,     19

John Buchanan, murder        -            -        Nov. 17,     19
Richard Smith, housebreaking           -        May  21,     20
James Wilson, high treason - hanged and
beheaded          -           -           -       Aug. 30,     20

William Leonard Swan, forgery . June 5,     21
Malcolm M'Intyre, William Pearson, and
James Dyer, housebreaking, - Oct. 20,     22
Donachy, housebreaking and theft - June 5,     22
John M'Dougall & James Wilson, house-
breaking and theft - - June 24,     23

David Wylie  theft - - - Nov. 12,     23
W. M'Teague, uttering forged notes May 19,      24
F. Kean, robbery, and G. Laidlaw, theft June 2,    24
William Devon, murder - - July 21,     24
James Stevenson, highway rubbery - June 1,     25

James Dollan, street robbery - This was
the first criminal who  suffered   be-
teween eight and ten - - - June 7, 26 
A. Stewart and E. Kelly, street robbery     Nov.   1,     26
James Glen, murder. - This criminal was 
dressed in white             .           -       Dec. 12,     27

Thomas  Connor   and   Bell   M'Menemy,
assault and robbery                     -          -     Oct 22,28

Edward Moore, murder           -            -         May 30,     29

John Hill & Wm.Porter assault &  robbery, May 12,     30
William M'Feat, murder        -            -        Sept 30,     30
David Little stouthrief         -            -        Jan.  17,     31

James Campbell, housebreaking and theft May  16,     31
James Buyers and Mary Ste 1. murderers Oct.     6,     31
William Heath,  housebreaking           -        Oct.  20,     32
William Lindsay, murder       -             -         Jan.   18,     32

Date of Execution.

P. Carney, rape, and J. Barklay, murder   May  14,     32
Henry Buirett, street robbery            -        Jan   13,     33
George Duffy, murder           -            -        Jan.  20,     33
Hugh Kennedy, throwing vitriol       -        Sep. 20,     34
George Campbell, murder      -            -  -   Sep  20,     36
Mrs Jeffrey, murder                -             -         May   21,    38
Thomas Templeton, murder - - May 27,    40
Denis Doolan and Patrick Redding, mur-
der - Executer at Crosshill, near
Glasgow - -  - May 14,     41

Charles MKay, murder . - May 18,     43
Margaret Lennox or Hamilton, forgery
and murder  Jan 31     50

Archibald Hare. murder . - Oct. 24,     51
Hans Smith M Farlune and Helen Black.
wood, murder    -            -            .        May  23      55

Mrs M'Lauchlan was sentenced to be executed for the
murder of Jessie M'Pherson on 11th Oct. 1862,
but was respited during her Majesty's pleasure.

EDINBURGH.

Thomas Hunter, A M , murder         -        Aug.   8, 1700
Nicol Musker, murder . . Aug. 8,     10
Margaret Dickson. murder—This person
recovered, and lived 30 years at Mus-
selburgh,where she  was  known by
name of" halt hanged Meg" - Aug. 2,     23

Agnes Crocket, child murder - Sept. 8.     56
Ann Morrison, child murder - - Mar. 7,     58
Janet Heatly, child murder . April 1,     61

Patrick Ogilvie, for the murder of Thomas
Ogilvie of Easterhill, his brother, and
adultery of his wife - - Nov. 18,     65

Margaret Adam, murder - - Mar 2,     65
Robert Hay, street robbery - - Mar 25,     67
John  Raybould, forgery .  Feb. 24,     68
William Harris, forgery . - May 20,     70
Alex. M Ronald and Chas. Jamieson, shop
breaking at Lithgow Bridgerd . Sept. 2.    70

Daniel Deveron. robrery - - Jan. 7,     87
Chas and Jas. Jameson robbing the mail Jan. 29,     87

   Date of Execution.

John Reid, murdering his son.         . Mar. 21, 1787

William Brodie and George Smith, theft Oct. 1, 88
J Falconer and P Bruce, bank robbery Dec. 24, 88
Bartholomew Collins. murder           . Feb. 8, 90

William Gadesbey robbery .          . Feb. 2, 92
William Smith. housebreaking . Oct. 12,     92
John Paul and J Stewart. street robbery July 27,     94

Robert Watt, high treason . Oct. 13,     94
Melesias Roderick M'Ullan, forgery on
the Paisley Bank         98

Thomas Urquhart, postmaster of Kirkwall,
Orkney opening letters, and abstract-
ing money therefrom . Oct. 16,  1800

Richard Brodie, theft . Feb. 11,    01

George Lindsay, murder  April 7,     02

Margaret Cunningham, murder - - Jan 7, 07

Matthew Smith, murder                  -                08

Barbara Malcolm, murder                 -        Feb. 10,    08

Robert Stewart, housebreakng    and theft Feb. 22,     09

John Armstrong,        do.               do.         Jan   17,     10

Adam Lyal highway robbery - Mar. 27,    11
Hugh M'Donald, Neil Sutherland, and

Hugh M'Intosh, street   robbery  -        April 22,     12

John M'Donald and James  Jack, murder April 14,     12

James M'Dougal, forgery             -       Aug. 10,     14

John Murroch, murder             -        Mar. 29,     15

David Thomson, housebreaking and theft Mar. 15,     16

Robert Johnstone, robbery  Dec. 30,     18
George Warden, taking money out of
letters a Post Office Abelleen  -       April 14,     19

John Dempey, murder         -           -        Dec: 13,    20
Samuel Maxwell, housebreaking & robbery Jan.   17,     21

David Haggart, murder - July 18,     21
John Rennie and William Sutherland,
housebreaking and tbeft - Aug. 22,     21
Peter Haenan and Francis Gartred, piracy
and murder at Leith     -         -       Jan.   9,    22

William M'lntyre, house breaking             Feb. 26,     23

Mary M'Kinnon. murder   -        -        April 16,    23

Daniel M'Donald Elphinstone murder      July. 3,      24

                Date of Execution.
William Burke murdering 16 individuals
by suffocating them, and selling their
bodies for dissection    -     - Jan. 28,     29
John Stewart and Catherine Wright, for
murdering;  three  person by giving
them poison    -          -       Aug. 19,     29

William Adams or Reid, robbery       -        Jan.    6,    29
Robert Edmond, Haddington murders       Mar 17,     30
George Gilchrist, robbery   -   -                  Aug. 3,              30   
John Thompson & David Dobbe, murder Aug. 19,     30
John M'Court, murder                     -        Dec. 19,     31
John Howieson, murder - - Jan. 21,     24
Thomas Sweeney, assault and robbery—
executed at Greenlaw    -        -       April  4,     34

James Bell, murder -          -       -       July   6,     35
Elizabeth M'Neil, murder             Aug   3,     35
James Wemyss, murder        -           -        April 16,     40
James Bryce, murder           -          -       April 3,     44
William Bennie, for poisoning his wife       Aug. 16,     50
J.Williams, murder—executed atGreenlaw May. 14,     53
William Cumming murder -          -       Jan. 25,    54

PAISLEY.

Four men and three women were burned
at the Gallowgreen for witchcraft June 16,  1697
Alexander Provan, murdering his wife,
had his right hand cut off and after-
wards hanged -    7   -           -          —     1765

Thomas Ports, housebreaking          .       Aug. 17,     97
John Craig and James Brown ,stouthrief Oct.  16,  1829
William Pirie, murder         -          .       Oct.   18,     37
John Thomson alias Peter Walker, murder Jan. 14,     58

GREENOCK.

Moses M'Donald, housebreaking - June 5,1822
Hugh M'llvogue, Bernard M'llvegue, and
and P. M. Crystal,   ape and  robbery    Oct.  13,     23
John Kerr, murder   •          •           -        June   6,     27
John Boyd, murder •          •          •       Oct. 27,     34

AYR.

John Hadden, housebreaking ,          .       Dec.    3, 1768

Date of Execution.

Matthew Hay, murder          .          . Oct 18 1784
W. Dornon and R. Smith, housebreaking May 16, 1816
JohnM'Millan,,murdur .           . May 25, 16
J. M.Manus, murder, and Robert Gibson,
robbery            .          .           . May 27,     11

George Watson, housebreaking'  . June 7, 11      
John Wetherington Symington, . Feb. 17,     14
William Evans, forgery .           . May 31,     15
Mary Cressan, fire raising, Wm. Robertson
and Joseph Cairns, robbery - Oct. 17,     17

James Anderson and David Glen, murder Dec. 12,     26
Samuel Waught; murder .           . Jan 18, 31
James M'Wbellan, murder and robbery Oct. 26,     48
Alexander Cunningham, murder . May 11,     64

STIRLING.

Thomas M'Lauchlan, housebreaking       Nov.   19, 1773
G. M'Kerracher, forgery  -    - April 28, 83
Joan Smart, forgery       -          -        May 16, 85
T' M'Nair, robbery at Falkirk          .       Oct 26. 1811
Alexander O'Kane, robbery  .           .        Feb. 21,     13
John Baird and Andrew Hardie, treason   Sept.   8     2\ill\
John Fleming, forgery          .          .       May 11      2\ill\
John M'Grady, housebreaking          .       Mav 25, 25
Peter Moffat, murder           .          .       July 28,     28
Robert Tennant, murder       .          .       Oct.    2,     28
Alex. Millar or Scatters, murder       -       April 8,     37
Allan Mair, murder, upwards of 80 year,   Oct.     4,    43

INVERARY.

Ann Campbell and Sarah Graham, Murder Nov. 3, 1733

INVERNESS.

Christian M'Kechnie, murder           -         Nov    2,1701
Alexander Gillan, rape and murder - hung
in chains           -           -          .        May 14,1800
H. M'Leod. murder and robbery       -        Oct. 24,     34
John Adams alias John Anderson,    -       Oct. 16,     35

PERTH.

Date of

Alexander M'Cowan -          -           .        Jun
R  Davidson and G. Bruce, robbery - June
John Dew Cameron, murder and robbery Nov.
William Doag, murder         .           - June 13
H.   M'Lean, murder, hung in chains,         July 15,
James Russell, robbery,          .          .     June 27,     59
Robert Keith, murder,        .          -            July 2,     60
John Henderson, murder—hung in Cupar, Sept. 26, 63
Jean Cameron, child murder,              - Oct 19, 64
Duncan Camphell and J Chapel, murder, June 19,     6
Alex. M'Donald, cattle stealing, - Nov. 27, 72
Francis Thornlie, housebreaking. - June 7, 74
John Fisher, housebreaking - July 17, 75
John Dorn, highway robbery             •        May 31,    93
Robert Rodger, highway robbery • June 24, 93
Donald. M'Craw, murder -           - Nov. 13, 96
A. West, housebreaking, executed at Dundee. June 12,1801
Hans Regelson, rape             .           . June 28, 12
John Larg and John Mitchell, robbery Feb. 28, 17
Margt Tindel, murder—executed at Montrose Nov. 2, 23
David Balfour, murder—executed at Dundee, June 3, 25
Margaret Wishatt, murder—executed at
Forfar,  -   -        June 15,     27
Arthur Woods,  murder — executed   at
Dundee             -           -          -        May  24,     29
Thomas   Leith,   murder — executed   at
Dundee              -           .          -       Oct.   10,     47
John   Kerracher,   murder—executed   at
Forfar    -           -           -                   May   9,     52
Michael  and  Patrick Scanlan brothers,
murder and roboery—executed at Cupar, July   5,      52

DUMFRIES.

William Johnstone, theft        -           -        Nov.   3.1780
John Carmichael, housebreaking - May 27, 86
Maitand Smith, murder and robbery         Oct. 21, 1800
James Gordon, Murder  -  - June 6, 10
John   M'Cauna aad Joseph Richardson,
forgery                                     -       May  14,     28

                                            Date of Execution..

James M'Manus, highway robbery . Oct. 18, 1829
Mrs. Reid or Timney, murder -          . April 18, 62

ABERDEEN.

John Hutchison, housebreaking and theft  June 28, 1766
Helen Watt, murder -                       .       Oct    11,       63
William Keith (her son, murder       .       Nov.  l5,     66
Jean Craig, theft       .          .           .       July 28      85
Elspeth Reid, theft    .          .           .       Jan   14     85
Thomas Donaldson, Wm. Buchanan, and       
Wm  M'Leod, housebreaking     .       May 23, 1823
Malcolm Gillespie,  forgery      .           .       Nov. 17,    26
Catherine Davidson, murder -            -       Oct   30,      36
James Burnet, murder   -  - May 28, 49
James Robb murder           -          -       Oct   10   49
George Christie, robbery & double murder Jan. 13, 53
John Booth, murder .          .          -Oct. 21, 57

JEDBURGH.                       

David Douglas, robbery        .          .       Nov. 18, 1768 
William Murray, theft          .           .       May 26,     89
Charles Mercer, rape           .           .       Oct. 10, 1809
John Gibson, murder                     •       May 12.     14
Robert Scott, murder           .                Oct.  23,     28
James Rodgers, murder        .          .       Oct.   20,     31
M. Wilson, murder   ...       Sept. 25,     49

LINLITHGOW.               

Peter M'Lean, murder         -          -        Feb. 8 1851
For WITCHCRAFT.

Allison Pearson, Fifeshre. practising sorcery and
invoking th devil strangled and burned
Euphame M'Clasean, Edinburgh buried alive
Patrick Larrie, consulting with the devil, burned
James Young, East Barns strangled and burned   
Janet Brown, Burntisland [   ], condemed and
executed - - - - - 

Date of Execution.

el Bairdie, and three women, strangled  and
burned - - - - -1649
obel Elliot, Edinburgh, for having carnal co[  ]
lation with the devil, burned by the executioner    1678


THE ENGLISH CRIMINAL CODE.

In the reign of   Henry VIII., according  to sharon
Turner, there were executed 72,000 great and petty
thieves. According to Hume 2000 were executed annu-
ally during that reign for theft and robbery only. Besides
other criminals. In the century from 1638 to 1738, there
were 70,000 executions, or 700 per annum. From 1820
to 1824, the first inclusive and the last exclusive, there 
were 290 or 93 a year.   From 1828 to1831, there were
230, ot 57 ½ a year. From 1832 to 1835, there were 155,
or 38 ¾ a year;  but in the year 1836 there were only 17
executions.                                       

The Plantagenets made 4 offences capital
TheTudors                 27          —
The Stuarts                 35           —
The Hanoverians         156          —

Which were reduced in number considerably in the reign
of George IV and William IV., and in the reign of her
present Majesty, so great has heen the santoration of our
Criminal Code, that there are now only nine offences
punishable with death.

For the origin of this purification of our statute Book
from blood  we are mainly indebted to the late Sir Samuel
Rowiney and the late Mr. Whitbread.

John Riley,  murder   Glasgow.               May,      1864
George Bryce, murder, Edinburgh          Jun    64
D Prichard  murder, Glasgow               Jul 1865
Andrew Brown murder Montrose,        Jan. 3    1865
[  ]murder, pert    May 22, 1866
Joseph Smith, murder, Dumfries, May 12, 1868THE ONLY

True Account.

Of the-Execution of Catherine Davidson, who
was executed at Aberdeen on Friday last, for
the murder of her husband, by pouring vitriol
down his throat; with the confession which she
made. With an account of a remarkable cir-
cumstance which happened about 40 years ago
at the execution of a woman in Aberdeen.
when the executioner threw the rope among
the crowd, which struck her on the breast..

(From the Caledonian   Mercury of Monday  Oct.   11, 1830.)

On Friday, Catherine Davidson, for the mur-
der of her husband, Jas. Humphrey, was executed
at Aberdeen in pursuance of her sentence. Since
her condemnation her conduct has been becom-
ing and exemplary. On Wednesday she parted
With her friends, and the scene was most heart-
rending. On Thursday afternoon, while wash-
ing herself, she said, " O, it's a sair thing to wash
for the gibbet; but I hope I will be washed in the
blood of my Redeemer." She was attended by
several clergymen and other persons, and paid
great attention to their ministration.

When brought into the Court-house on Friday
 she was asked by the Lord Provost  if she  had
been properly used  during her  confinement, to
which she replied in the affirmative.     To aques,
tion by the Rev. Mr, Murray,  she said, " I  ac-
knowledge the justice of my sentence; but O,  I
did not buy the stuff to give him—but misfortune
took hold of me, and I  gave it  him— but O, I
did not think it would kill him—but I did it, and
  I suffer justly.''

When led out to the scaffold, she was conduct-
ed instantly forward to the drop, an every prepa-
ration being over, she addressed a few words to
Dr Kidd, and at five minutes before three she gave
the signal, and was in a few moments in another
world Her last words were " O, my God." A
great multitude,witnessed the execution.

It is upwards of 45 years since a female criminal
suffered the punishment of death in Aberdeen: The
last woman that was executed there was Elspet
Reid, from Banffshire, who was hanged on the 14th
Jan., 1785:

Jean Craig for stealing linen cloth and women's clothes, was
also executed on the 23d July, 1784.

It is a singular fact, and which Mrs. Humprey more than once
mentioned since her trial, that being present at Jean Craig's exe-
cution, on the body being cut down, the ;ope was, as was then u-
sual, thrown among the crowd, when the knot struck her on the
breast. She said that she recoiled with horror; and that the cir-
cumstance had borne much on her mind since she received her sen,
tence. 





John Muir, Printer.TRIAL

AND

EXECUTION

OF

James Wilson,

At Carlisle, on Monday the l6th March, for the wilful Murder

of JOHN ELLIOT, a poor Pack Boy, on Eastdale Moor,

on the 8th day of August, 1884.

ON February the 12th, came on the trial of James Docherty
or Wilson. The indictment set forth,' That you the said
James Docherty or Wilson did, on the 8th day of August, on
Eastdale Moor, in the county of Cumberland, wickedly, feloni-
ously and barbarously murder John Elliot, aged 14 years, by
striking him on the head with large wooden clogs, or some
other weapon to the prosecutor unknown, and afterwards take
from his person £1,13s, more or less, his wooden box or pack,
with its contents, valued at £1 : That after he had murdered
the deceased he threw the box into a stream or river.' The
prisoner, in a style of effrontery and impudence, pled Not
Guilty.

A number of witnesses were then called, who all, in the
clearest manner, tended to criminate the prisoner. The Judge
then summed up the evidence; and the Jury, after a few
minutes consultation, returned a verdict of Guilty.

EXECUTION.

Since his condemnation the prisoner behaved in a careless
and reckless manner. He was often visited by the Catholic
Priest of Dumfries. At 12 o'clock on Monday he appeared
on the scaffold, arected on the top of the Jail. After a few
minutes spent in prayer, the bolt was drawn, and he was
launched into eternity.

VERSES.

John Elliot was at Hexham born,             

And grew a simple boy,                      

A tender mind and slender frame,            

Unfit for hard employ.                      

Induced from his home to range,             

Far from his native town;                   

His little box of pedlar ware               

He carried up and down.                     

He travell'd through Northumberland;      

Oft had he cross'd the Tweed ;              

And where shepherds climb the heights,      

Their fleecy flocks to feed.                

Snuff boxes, purses, little combs,          

And trumps, were in his pack;               

And oft the curious eye to please,          

He loos'd them from his back.               

His trinkets were of Sheffield make.        

Of iron, steel and brass; .                 

His ballads the attention drew              

Of many a buxom lass.                       

To buy his prints, the children oft         

On mothers would prevail;                   

Then to amend his trisling purse,           

Would offer him a meal.                     

On every side of winding Tweed            

Right many friends he had,                  

For all esteem'd him, for he was            

An honest, harmless lad.                    

But can the innocence of Iambi              
Protect them from the fox ?                 

Who would have thought that such a boy,     
Would be murder'd for his box ?             

Cue human bloodhound followed him,          

And flatter'd night and day,                

To lure him to the wilderness,              

To make of him a prey.                      
   " If you but cross the moor," quoth he,
                                          
       " Whatever may befall,            
                                         
   I'll bring you to a plenteous board.   
                                         
          And hospitable hall;           
                                         
    " And when you open out your pack,    
                                          
       They'll buy up every thing;        
                                          
         That great addition to your purse
                                          
       With joy will make you sing."      
                                          
This was the way that he deceiv'd         
                                          
      The poor unthinking boy ;           
                                          
  He by hopes of gain beguil'd,           
                                          
          Was fill'd quite full of joy.   
                                          
        With worse than devils artifice   
                                          
     He lur'd him to the wild,            
                                          
      And with worse than savage breast,  
                                          
      To kill the harmless child.         
                                          
     For lack of weapons on a bent        
                                          
      Did iron-shod clogs employ,         
                                          
     And with these monst'rous clogs      
                                          
   He kill'd the little boy.              
                                          
        Alas! a brother's life,           
                                          
         Of such a small account,         
                                          
        His blood should thus be shed.    
                                          
           For a trifling pack's amount.  
                                          
Since first that Cain his brother dew,    
                                          
          Can intermediate time,          
                                          
        Such cowardly murder shew among   
                                          
           The lost of human kind ?       
                                          
        But mark the wooden box he stole, 
           When he the owner slew,        
                                          
   Tho' rifled and thrown in the stream,  
        A strict enquiry drew.            
                                          
  So now he's hanged for the deed,        
                                          
          And what more can I say,        
                                          
     But he that did no mercy show,   
                                          
  Can scarce for mercy pray.              
 This barbarous Murder was discovered by a Shepherd's dog.      
As it is very frequent in that part of the country, Shepherds   
 go out of a Sunday evening to look after their flocks ; on one 
 of these evenings the body of the lad was discovered.          
                                                                
 Printed for Francis M'Cartney —Price One Halfpenny.            
Execution.

An Account of the Last Days. Behaviour and
Execution of JAMES BRYCE, Labourer,
who was Executed here this morning, 3d
April, 1844, for the Murder of his Brother-
in-Law, John Geddes, at Blaw Wearie, parish
of West Calder, on 27th December last.

This unhappy man, JAMES BRYCE, suffered the extreme penalty
of the law for his crimes of murder and robbery this morning, 3d
April, 1844, a little before 9 o'clock, on a Scaffold erected for the
purpose, at the head of what was called Libberton's Wynd, now
the head of the entrance to the County Hall, west side, nearly
facing the head of Bank Street, Edinburgh.

The melancholy and degrading circumstances that led to the
fatal and ignominious death of this unfortunate man were detailed
at great length st his trial, which excited much interest at the time,
and which rook place before the High Court of Justiciary, at
Edinburgh, on the 12th and 13th days of March last; and
though he pled not guilty to the charges, when put to the bar,
the chain of evidence adduced against him was so strong and
plain, and so clearly, fairly, and forcibly stated by the Solicitor-
General, that the Jury, after the most anxious and mature delibera-
tion, unanimously found him guilty ; and that, too, notwithstand-
ing a long, brilliant, and most ingenious speech addressed to them
on his behalf by his counsel, Mr Crawford, for which he was com-
plimented from the bench.

Soon after his condemnation, however, it is certainly satisfactory
to record, that he confessed his guilt freely, fully, and willingly,
notwithstanding his gloomy, sullen, and taciturn appearance and
conduct at his trial. Indeed the Lord Justice Clerk's solemn ad-
dress, at passing sentence, must have made a very serious and deep
impression on him. After stating that by the verdict returned, and
the sentence which the law annexed to the fearful crime of which
he had been found guilty, his Lordship emphatically said, " your
days are numbered—the hours are numbered which you are to re-
main in this world. It is for you, then, to think what is to follow
the execution of this sentence—the announcement of which ought
to shut out for ever from you all thoughts of this world. You will
pass, after a space which your sentence specifies, into the presence
of Almighty God—into the presence of that Great Being who can
destroy, not the body only, but the soul, and from whose unerring
justice the punishment due to guilt—to unrepented guilt—must
follow after you appear at His judgment seat. I exhort you not to
turn your mind away from the atrocity of the guilt with which you
stand charged ; but on the contrary, by dwelling upon that, to
bring your mind into that state of abasement, and contrition, and
penitence, by which alone you can be brought to implore mercy
through the merits of the blessed Redeemer. You will be assisted,
I doubt not, by able clergymen, who will direct you in this way,
who will strive to produce an impression of divine truths on your
soul ; yield yourself willingly and submissively to their instruction.
Do not delude yourself with false hopes of mercy here. With them
and by yourself implore the mercy of God through faith in that
blessed Redeemer, whose atonement alone can pardon the sinner."

After this solemn admonition, working on a convicted conscience,
Bryce soon became penitent, and acknowledged the justice of his
sentence. He was regularly attended by the City clergy, as well as
by the Chaplain, who were unremitting in their attentions to him.
Within the last few days several friends waited upon him, who ap
peared quite satisfied with his conduct and behaviour. Indeed, he
appeared perfectly penitent and resigned to his fate. Late on Tues-
day night he was brought over from the Jail, and lodged in the
Lock-up, where he slept several hours, occasionally starting and
moaning. This morning he was early waited upon by two clergy-
men and the officiating magistrates, and, after singing and praying
for a short time in the hall, he appeared on the scaffold soon after
eight, decently dressed and apparently quite resigned to his fate.
A few minutes being spent in prayer and praise, he was, assisated up
to the fatal drop, where he was observed solemnly praying, when
he threw the handkerchief—the drop fell—and he ceased to exist.A particular account of the Execution of JOHN CRAIG and JAMES
BROWN, who were executed at Paisley, on Thursday the 29th of

OCtober, 1829 for the crime of Stoutrief.

YESTERDAY, JOHN CRAIG, glazier, and JAMES BROWN,
labourer, were executed in front of the Court Houses in
Paisley, for the crime of stouthrief. It may be remembered that
men were convicted at our last Circuit Court of breaking into the
house of William Robertson, bleacher at West Foxbar, in the
Vbbey parish of Paisley, on the morning of the 14th June last;
and after having overcome the resistance of Mr Robertson and his
sister, by various acts of violence and threats of murder, they
robbed the house of different articles of valuable property ; and
previous to leaving the premises, bound the proprietors with ropes
to prevent them from giving any alarm. An accomplice of the
name of Robert Stewart, a weaver, was outlawed for not appearing.
From the period of their condemnation, the deportment of Craig
and Brown was befitting the awfulness of their situation. Feeling
they had no hope whatever in this world, they apparently gave
themselves wholly up to the things of the next, and listened to the
gifferent religious instructors who visited them with the most an-
xious and earnest desire to profit by their advice and instruction.

During their imprisonment in the Jail of Paisley, the families of
the prisoners had frequent interviews with them, the last of which
took place on Wednesday ; and when we mention that Craig had
a wife and three children, and Brown a wife and seven children to
Dart with for the last time in this world, it will rcadily be con-
ceived that the scene which took place was of the most overwhelm-
ing and heart-rending description. During the night preceding the
exeution, and indeed during the whole period of their conflne-
ment, the unfortunate men were most assiduously attended by their
religious instructors, who did every thing in their power to impress
their minds with the necessity of deep, sincere, and humble repen-
tance....and if a person might judge of their spiritual improvement
from the expressions of thankfulness and gratitude for these hu-
mane individuals, there was every reason to hope that they had not
laboured in vain.

On the morning of the execution, the men slept for about two
hours each ; and during night they were frequently engaged in
prayer for themselves their wives and families ; Brown was at one-
time greatly affected, but gradually recovered that composure which
he, as well as his companion, had all along maintained. By a
quarter to 12 o'clock they had been pinioned, at which period, J.
C. Dunlop. Esq. Sheriff-depute of Renfrewshire, Alex. Campbell,
Esq, Sheriff-depute accompanied by the Provost and Magistrates of
Paisley, bearing their rods of office, entered the day-room of the
prison, when Craig and Brown followed, and were seated at the
lire. The Rev Mr Telfer and the Rev. Mr Geddes then offered up
fervent prayers in their behalf, and that of their destitute families.

After this had been done, and the blessing pronounced, Craig
and Brown proceeded to the scaffold, (the former leaning on the
arm of the Rev. Mr Symington, the latter on that of the Rev.
Mr Goddes) which they ascended with all that firmness and
composure which their previous behaviour indicated.

When the executioner had adjusted the ropes, and the caps
were drawn over the faces of the unhappy men, Mr Symington
again pronounced a most emphatic prayer in their behalf, after
which Craig and. Brown shook hands with each other, and with
those gentlemen who were near them, when, every thing being
ready, the signal was placed in the hands of Brown, who, after-be-
ing engaged in prayer for two minutes, enquired of Craig twice if
he was ready, and being answered in the affirmative, the signal was
given at half-past twelve, and the drop instantly fell. The suffer-
ings of Brown appeared to be brief, but the body of Craig was
much convulsed for some minutes.

Previous to coming so Johnstone, (where he had only a twelve-
month, working as a labonrer, which he continued to do till about
a fortnight prevlous to the perpetration of the crime for which he
sufferd) Brown kept an inn in Newtonards, Ireland, in which line
he was unfortunate. Craig had resided in Johnstone for a period
of nine  year.

Since the days of witchcraft, there  have been only three melan-
choly exhibitions of this nature in Paisley; and it is not a little re-
markable that the precise period  of thirty-two years should have
elapsed betwixt each of them, as appears from the following list:....
A Provan, weaver, (a  most  notorious villoin,) for murdering his
wife, was executed on the 7th November, 1765, at the Gallow-
green,on the Glasgow Fast-day, and his right hand struck off;
Thomas Potts, Weaver, on the 17th August, 1797, for housebreak

ing and robbery at Gryffe Castle, Craig and Brown in Oct 1829.A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of
JOHN M'GRADDY, who was Executed at Stir-
ling, on Friday the 26th May, 1826, containing the
particulars of his Trial, and his behaviour since the
time he received sentence of death, and at the place
of Execution.

STIRLING, 26th May, 1826. This day the unfortunate man
 underwent the last mandate of the law in front of our prison
here, for housebreaking and theft, in the house of the Rev. Mr
M'Call, of Muiravonside.

The first witness the Rev. William M'Call, stated that his house
was broken into, upon the llth December last, about 1 o'clock in
the morning, when he heard a noise come from the north part of
the house, he started up, but thought it was occasioned by the ser-
vants working, he came to the stair head, where he saw a light be-
low, and in a few minutes two men rushed up stairs, one of them
had on something like a. spanish cloak, and held it up so as to con-
ceal his face, one of them was armed with a pistol, and the other
with a sword; the one with the pistol said, If you do not give up
your money I will shoot you ; they then forced him back to the
bed-room, and went directly to a chest of drawers, and ransacked
them, they carried off a sum of money which had been collected for
the deaf and dumb institution in Edinburgh ; saw them carry away
a gold watch which hung beside the window.—saw them take from
a press some silver teaspoons, when they were at the press, witness
stood in the passage opposite the front door, and took the oppor-
tunity of opening the door and making his escape to the house of
Mr Read, a farmer in the neighbourhood, here he got assistance, but
on returning the fellows were gone. He said there was a great
number of shirts and stockings taken away, here a pair of stockings
were shown him which he indentified as his property, on being
asked if the two prisioners at the bar were the men, he said they
were about the size of the men that were in the house ; but could
not swear to them, as he did not see their faces.

Janet Roberts, and Elizebeth Taylor, corroborated the evidence
of the proceeding witness.

Edward Quin, boatman to the Union Canal, stated that he saw
M'Graddy shortly after the robbery, when he told him, that the
manse had been broken into and that he, M'Graddy, was one of
the persons engaged in it, he saw the officers find a pair of stockings
among the coals; saw M'Graddy wear a pair like them, and that he
had them on just before the officers came up.

Andrew M'Kay, stated that lie was one of them that apprehended
M'Graddy, that he found the pair of stockings shown in court among
the coals, near where M'Graddy was lying, who had no stockings
on, and the weather was remarkably cold at the time.

Several other witnesses were examined, after which the Advocate-
depute addressed the Jury for the Crown, and Mr Bruce for M'-
Graddy. Lord M'Kenzie then summed up the evidence, at consi-
derable length, when the Jury, after deliberating a few minutes, re-
turned a verdict of Guilty. After an impressive address, he was
sentenced to be executed at Stirling, on Friday the 26th May 1826,
upon hearing which, he was so much affected that the officers had
to carry him away from the bar.

Since his condemnation, we understand, he has behaved himself
with great propriety, and becoming his melancholy situation ; he
was attended by the ministers of the Town, who did all in their
power to compose his mind, and to make him lay hold on the hope
set before him in the gospel, to whom he paid great attention.

Accordingly, this day at two oclock, the Magistrates, attended by
their officers, entered the Town-hall, where some of the clergy and
others were in attendance on the prisoner. After spending some
short time in devotional exercise, they proceeded to the scaffold,
where prayers were again put up for the unhappy man. He then
affectionately took leave of those around him, shaking hands with
the officers respectively. He left the jail with great reluctance, and
when the executioner appeared with a white cotton cap, he would
not permit him to put it on, but put on a striped Kilmarnock one,
which he pulled out of his own pocket. After considerable hesita-
tion, and after every thing was prepared, he dropt the fatal signal,
and was launched into eternity, in presence of a great multitude of
spectators. We trust this awful example will have its due effect on
all those who witnessed it.

He was a native of Ireland, and a well-looking young man, about
21 or 22 years of age, and nearly 6 feet high; we cannot learn that
he had any trade, but was generally employed as a labourer ; and
at the time he committed the robbery, he was plying with a coal-
boat on the Union Canal.   A full and true account of the Behaviour and

 Execution

OF

MARGARET WISHART, who was Executed at Forfar, on
Saturday last, the 16th June, 1827, for the horrid and cruel
murder of her own blind sister.    With the proceedings at the
place of Execution.    Also an accouut of the dreadful noises 
which were heard in the house lately occupied by her.

FORFAR, 16th JUNE. 1827- This day, the last sentence of the law was put
in force here, upon MARGARET WISHART, who was convicted at last Perth
Assizes, of the cruel and horrid murder of her own blind sister, by giving her poison
among her porridge.

It appeared from the evidence which was adduced on the trial, that her sister was
blind, and that she lived with Margaret, that she had had an illegitimate child, and
was again pregnant; that on the 6th day of October last, she had given her a plate
of porridge, and had put some arsenic in them, that in about half an hour after
wards she took unwell, and complained of a  particular drought. She was delivered
of a male child, which was  healthy as birth, but its belly swelled, and it grew worse
till it died. Her sister Margaret, would let no doctors be sent for, and she died in
three days after she got the poison.

The Jury unanimously found her guilty of the murder of her sister, and she was to
have been Executed here, on Saturday the 2d of June, but in consequence of her
having some short time before, exhibited strong symptom of mental derangement,
a respite of fourteen days was granted, to see if it was true; but we understand there
was no truth in it.

About two o'clock, the prisoner came into the Hall, attended by the Magistrates
and the Rev. Messrs. Clugston and Rankine, and at her desire, the 51 st psalm, from
the 7th to the 12th verse was sung. Towards half-past two, the prisoner signified
her readiness to ascend the scaffold, to which she was assisted by the Rev. Messrs.
Clugston and Rankine, and after seating herself on a chair, Mr. C. commenced the
last devotional services, by giving out, as selected by the prisoner, a portion of the
5th hymn, and by her desire, beginning at the line, " not in my innocence I trust"
Mr. C. having requested the assembled multitude join in the last devotional ex-
ercises with their fellow-mortal on earth, the request was generally complied with.
At its conclusion the prayer Offered up left with many present, an impression which
is not likely soon to be efficed. The Executioner now adjusted the rope round the
neck of the unhappy woman, and drew the cap over her face. She was then sup-
ported to the fatal drop, on which she stood 38 minutes engaged in prayer, and ad-
dressing the crowd. In her last prayer she confessed many aggravated sins, and
cried loudly for mercy through the Redeemer, but did not confess the crime for
which she suffered; This she denied from the first, and Mr. Clugston who had the
nearest access to her heart, was not instructed either to assert her innocence, or ac-
knowledge her guilt. At 20 minutes past 3, the drop fell, and she died without a 
struggle. Her composure of mind during the whole was astonishing. After hang-
ing the usal time, her body was cut down, and sent to Edinburgh for dissection. The
executioner from Edinburgh officiated, and the crowd was immense.

In the house formerly occupied by her in Arbroath, there is occasionally heard,
(particularly in the night time) a fearful noise, as if of tongues, doors rattling, fire-
irons clattering, & c.; so that the present occupants lose many an hour and night's
sleep. Mr. William Prophet; stone-ware merchant, and family, occupy the whole
house. Several people who have had occasion to be in the house, have heard the
noises, and concur with the family in speaking of them. Whatever the cause of
them may may be, the truth of this statement is beyond all controversy. Ghost or
no ghost, the family are fearfully annoyed.

                                                                       John Muir, printer, Glasgow.A FULL & PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF THE

EXECUTION

OF

Robert Tennant,

Who was Executed at Stirling on Wednesday morning,
the 2d of October, for the bloody Murder of William
Peddie, an old man, about 70 years of age, on the high
road between Beancross and Kerse toll, parish of Fal-
l-irk, on the evening of the 3d of August last, with his
Speech upon the scaffold, also a copy of his Lamenta-
tion.

ROBERT TENNANT is a young man about 24 years of age,
was a labourer, and employed in breaking stones on the Toll
Road, between Beancross and Kerse Toll, in the parish of Falkirk,
when the unfortunate circumstances of the murder took place..—
William Peddie, the deceased was about 70 years old, a labourer
also, and likewise employee on the same road, on which he was
foreman. On the forenoon of the 3d of August, the day on which
the murder was committed, Peddie was instructed to dismiss Ten-
aant from the work, by Mr. Borthwick, the superintendant of that
district of road, because that, although the deceased had before pre-
vailed on the superintendnnt to keep him on the road, it was evi-
dent that his drinking and irregularity rendered him unfit to be
longer employed, and had been at that moment, 12 o'clock noon,
lying drunk on the footpath, opposite the Toll, apparently fast
asleep. When he awoke, and this instruction was communicated
to him, the altercation commenced, which ended in the murder of
the poor old man.

About eight o'clock on Wednesday morning the Magistrates as
sembled in the Court -House, shottly after which the prisoner was
brought forward, and after a short time spent in devotional exer-
oise, and after singing a few verses of the 50th psalm, he proceed-
ed to the scaffold about 20 minutes past 8 o'clock, when after i
very impressive and ferent prayer by the Rev. A Bennie, during
which he bowed repeatedly, he was led to the drop, and after a few
seconds spent in prayer, he gave the signal, when he was launched
into eternity. He was decently dressed in black. There were about
2000 spectators present.

Ye fellow man, pray view the end,

Of those who live in crime,
they range abroad without a friend;

And die before their time,
the dreadful scaffold does unfold

A lesson to the young;
It paints in Language seldom told,

That crime will stop the tongue.

When pinioned fast, the awful view,

Does damp the prisoner's heart,
But little thought spectators take,

It leaves no lasting smart.
Farewell, my friends, we now must sever,

The thought lies heavy at my heart,
Forget my awful end for ever,

I from you now must part.An account of the Execution of WILLIAM  DORNAN, and ROBERT SMYTH, who were
banged at Air, on Friday the 26th  day of  May, pursuant to their sentence, for shopbreak-
ing and theft—with an account of their behaviour at the place of execution.

THE number of unhappy  men  that  in  the   pre-    
sent enlightened state  of  society forfeit their   
lives to the injured laws of the  happy country in 
which they  live  is  truly  deplorable ,  and  would dis-    
grace the dark ages long past.                                   

It proves but too clearly, that religion is daily 
more and more  neglected; and, of course, the 
hearts of those who neglect it become wicked and 
depraved. He who does not consider religion as 
one of his most principal duties—a duty which 
not only smoothens the rugged path of this tran- 
sient life—teaches resignation to the will of that
Supreme Power by whom we   live;  move, and have 
our being, but insures all the happiness we are per- 
mitted to enjoy in this world, and promises, through 
the   merits  of  our   Blessed  Saviour ,    to  every  true
believer, eternal life, with felicity indescribable, in 
the world to come.                                                   

  In the present eventful period, no doubt, trades-    
men in general have been much depressed; for the   
enemy with which Britain has so long and nobly    
contended with, after trying every effort that un-
bounded ambition could invent to ruin this happy    
country without success, he at last aimed a blow at    
our  commerce,   attended  with  circumstances the    
history of no nation or time can parallel, as he saw
by trade we were happy, rich, and content.    But    
the wisdom of the government  under which we    
live, in a great measure, frustrated this diabolical  
scheme also; and few tradesmen that are industrious
can yet say they want bread.

The   tradesman who is sober and industrious,    
much as the times are complained of, can yet live    
in a decent manner; but he who indulges himself   
in idleness and dissipation is sure to work his own    
destruction although trade was in the most flourish-
ing state.    The two unfortunate men who suffered
this day, Friday May 26,  1809, at Air, are ano-
ther lamentable proof of what has been advanced
on this subject; for they were both useful trades-
men, and by not pursuing their industry with con-
tentment, they were led into practices that brought
them to a shameful and premature death, and de-
prived  society for ever of that   assistance which
it was their duty to have given it.

They were both natives of Ireland—William
Dornan was by trade a blacksmith, and Robert
Smyth a shoe-maker. Smyth had enlisted with the
21st regiment, and afterwards deserted.

They appeared to be connected with a man of
the name of Cunning, a cotton spinner, from Bel-
fast, who was at Air the time the robbery was com-
mitted, and appeared at their trial as an exculpatory
witness. He then stated, that in September last he
was in Air, and on the evening of the 10th, he
went to the quay, and staid there till late expect-
ing to have got away with a vessel which did not
sail. He then came up to town along with another
man of the name of Muir, who he believed went
afterwards to Dublin and enlisted. When near the
far end of the bridge he saw Smyth and Dornan
listening to a quarrel. They advised him not to
cross the bridge, but to go round by the street to
avoid the bustle. When passing up the street he
saw two men carrying bundles. Smyth and Dor-
nan then run after them, and got two bundles
which those who had run off dropped He also
stated that he never touched the bundles, but im-
mediately left Dornan and Smyth.

This was also the very same manner in which
Dornan and Smyth said they got the goods, when
taken before the Magistrates, and examined respect-
ing the robbery, although Smyth, who was first
apprehended, in a public-house in Prestick, while
on the road to Air, and before  this examination
took place, admitted knowing something of the
goods stolen, and further, that  he was one of the
two who were at the shop that was entered, but
that he only stood at the door while Dornan hand-
ed out the goods. He also agreed, when brought
to Air, to shew the place where the goods were
concealed and war, seat accordingly under a guard.
He said on the road, that Dornan was at Irvine
trying to get a passage in any vessel  for Ireland, and
to take the goods with him, and that he would be
back between four and six.

When they came to the place where the goods
were hid, Dornan was discovered, who run off on
their coming near him, but was pursued, and then
taken; and the goods, in two large packages, were
found in Prestick Lands, by Smyth's directions.—
This transaction, contrasted with what was said by
Cunning the exculpatory evidence, but too clearly
evinced their guilt; indeed the Judge who presided
at the trial considered him as an objectionable wit-
nese, but the Advocate Depute having no objections
to him, well knowing the Jury would see the absur- 
dity of what he advanced when they compared his
statement with other parts of the evidence, there-
fore he was permitted to give his evidence as above
related.

The articles taken from the shop, which was en-
tered by means of false keys, consisted principally
of nineteen pieces of print, five of gingham, silk
chambray, black silk velvet, cotton, ditto, spotted
muslins, imitation shawls, handkerchiefs, &c.—
But although the robbery was immediately adver-
tised, and the goods diligently searched for in every
suspicious quarter, no discovery [              ]
by accident, a child in a house at cloncaird, where 
Sally M'Glauchlan, Smyth's  wife, had been en-
gaged as a reaper, observed a number of silk hand-
kerchiefs in a bundle which belonged to Sally—she
told her mother, and she communicated it to her
husband, who took the necessary steps to have
Sally apprehended, and her examination led to a
full discovery of the robbery.



The unfortunate men, from the day they were
condemned, conducted themselves with the most
pious resignation, and appeared highly sensible of
the  treatment and  indulgence they  experienced
during their confinement.



Their behaviour at the place of execution was
in every respect becoming their awful situation.-—
They appeared on the scaffold about three o'clock,
took an affectionate leave of the Magistrates and
Ministers who attended them—then addressed the
multitude in a firm manner, acknowledging the
justice of their sentence, and exhorting them to take
warning by their melancholy fate, which they
brought on themselves by neglecting their industry,
and indulging themselves in idleness. After they
finished their address they shook hands with the
executioner, prayed fervently about ten minutes,
gave the fatal signal, and were launched into eter-
nity in presence of the greatest concourse of people
ever remembered to be assembled in Air on any oc-
casion whatever.

          

Printed by Thomas Duncan, 159, Saltmarket.          EXECUTION

Of that unfortunate young Man,

WILLIAM   M'INTYRE,

belonging to Glasgow, who was Executed at Edinburgh on
Wednesday morning the 26th Feb. 1823, for Housebreaking
and Theft.

Edinburgh, February 26.—This morning, WILLIAM M'lNTYRE was Executed
here, pursuant to his sentence, convicted of breaking into the premises of Braehouse,
in the Lothian Road, the residence of Miss Ann Butter, and stealing therefrom a
quantity of wearing apparel.

In his declaration, which was read on his trial, he stated that he was born in Pais-
ley, had been a tailor in Glasgow, and came to Edinburgh for employment; that he
had been drinking the night previous to his apprehension, and tor want of lodgings
went to sleep in a paik, where he was roused by the cry of " Stop Thief," and was
taken into custody. We understand that M'Intyre was not his proper name, and
that he had never been a tailor but wrought at the calender business in Glasgow,
till within these two or three years, when he took up with bad company, and had
been several times in Glasgow Bridewell, and had appeared at the bar of the Circuit
Court there.

The Lord Justice Clerk on proceeding to pass sentence on the unhappy youth,
expressed his sorrow that in consequence ot the verdict of a most respectable Jury it
it had fallen to his lot to fulfil a melancholy duty. His Lordship said, the crime of
housabreaking had become so extremely frequent, as to lead to the supposition that
it was not regarded as a capital crime, but the example about to be made would
prove the contrary. His Lordship remarked that it was the duty of all to prepare
for the great change which awaited them, it was peculiarly so for one whose days
were numbered, and earnestly besought him riot to waste. the short time that re-
mained to him in this world, but by a thorough, sincere, and heartfelt repentance,
endeavour to obtain the forgiveness of Almighty God, through the merits of our bles-
sed Saviour. This exhortation, his Lordship said, he gave from the very bottom of
his heart, and again entreated him to prepare himself for the great event which sooner
or later awaited all mankind.

Notwithstanding his efforts to hear his final doom announced with fortitude, he
was evidently much distressed, and shed tears from the moment the verdict was re-
turned.

At about 2O minutes past eight this morning the unfortunate youth proceeded
from the Lock-up-house, at the back of the County Hall, to the place of execution
at the head of Libberton's Wy'nd, where he was attended by the Rev. Dr. Muir
and Mr. Porteons, Chaplain of the Jail. A most earnest prayer having been offered
up in his behalf, in which he joined with fervor; be then came forward to the front
of the scaffold, and shortly addressed the spectators, exhorting them to avoid bad.
company, to attend to the instructions of their parents and guardians, and to be di-
ligent in the observance of their religious duties. The exocutioned having adjusted
the rope, he gave the signal, when the fatal drop fell, and he died in an instant,
almost without a struggle.

 He was a good looking lad, about 18 years of age. He appeared exceedingly
pale, and behaved with great propriety at the fatal spot; and was decently dressed
in black. The crowd was not great.                              

					John Muir, Printer, Glasgow.Genuine and latest Account of the Ex-
eution of John Campbell who suffered
at Stirling on Friday last, the 14th of
May 1824. shewing the Lamentable
manner in which he cried aloud  for
mercy, with an account of his affect-
ing farewell with his aged Father ;al-
so an account how be seized hold of
rope whan he was thrown off.

This day, the above unfortunate young man, John Campbell,
who was, on the 9th of April last, convicted of various acts
of Housebreaking and Theft, suffered the last punishment of
the law. His behaviour on the occasion of his trial, was of
such an uncommon and extravagant nature,—breaking out
into the most heart-rending lamentation,18 and otherwise ex-
hibiting such a want of fortitude,—that many were led to
conjecture that there was at least a temporary destitution of
reason. His conduct continued nearly the same long after he
was taken out of Court, and for several days after his con-
demnation, the cries from his cell arrested and annoyed the
passengers on the streets. He became afterwards, however,
more composed ; but still at intervals displayed a weakness of
mind, whieh, coupled with his extreme youth, might perhaps
have well excused the extension of Royal Mercy. Within a
few days of his execution, when he was assured on the evi-
dence of an official communication, that there was no hope
of the sentence being commuted; his behaviour became
more distracting than ever ; and it was deemed necessary to
attend him. constantly, bath with the view of keeping him
more at ease, and of preverting the sentence of the law from
being self-anticipated.

Campbell.   since his uondemnation,   till within   these few
days,   took his   meals regularly,   and  in general   slept   well.
Latterly,  his rest was broken   and disturbed,   his impending
fate engrossing his whole attention ; and he was often exclaim-
ing, " How will   I be  able   to suffer  such a   death !    While
conversing  with religious  people he was more  tranquil than
at other periods : and he frequently stated that his hope rest.
ed solely on the merits of  our Saviour.    The greater part of
last night was spent in a manner suitable  to the melancholy
occasion ; and the  prisoner seemed more composed  than be
had been for some nights previous.     At 2 o'clock this morn-
mg, he threw himself on his bed, and slumbered till 8,   when
he awoke, remarking that another hour of his time was gone.
He again   betook himself to rest,   and continued in   a calm
sleep till nearly 5, when he got up, and entered seriously into
the religious conversation of those around him ; and fervent-
ly prayed that the Lord would strengthen him in his hour of
trial.    During the forenoon, he was visited qy several of the
religious   inhabitants and clergymen of the   place,   to whose
prayers and   instructions  he  paid   particular  attention.    A
little before 2 in the afternoon,   he was  led into   the Court-
Room,  where,  as is usual,  the religious exercises were per-
formed,  after which,   attended by the Rev. Mr Anderson of
Blair Logie,  he moved forward to the scaffold.    Centrary to
general expectation, the prisoner behaved with a great degree
of fortitude,   until he dropped  the signal,   when he  seized
the rope with his hand, and consepuently  by injuring  the
fall, prolonged his agony for some time.

John Campbell was born at the bridge of Kelty, near Cal-
lander, in 1804, and came to reside in the village of St. Nin-
ians, about a mile from Stirling, when very "young. What
education he possessed, he received at the parochial school of
that place. He also attended the Sabdath Evening School
there, but notwithstanding the good instructions he was then
receiving, he was in the habit of committing many petty de-
predations through the week, such as entering hen-houses,
and carrying off the poultry. He never could think of set-
tling at any regular employment, and to this, the breaking of
the Sabbath, and bad company, he attributed his awful end.
For two winters he followed after smugling, during which
attained a number of bad habits.ELEGY

AND

EPITAPH

ON

Thomas Williams,

Late Dempster, or Hangman, of the City
of Edinburgh,

Who died the 5th of January 1833, aged 66 years.
He was upwards of 12 years in that capacity,
and conducted himself with wonderful propriety, 
which few does in his line. This shows, that
whatever occupation in life we follow, a man may
keep his character somewhat blameless. He has
left a widow and two children, that paid every
attention to him during his trouble. He be-
longed to four different regiments, and was be-
loved by his officers and comrades,—the dis-
charges from each regiment will certify the
statement, but had no pension, as was erroneous-
ly stated, in a spurious publication previously
published.

ELEGY.

SCARCE had the infant year begun,
A time when Scottish folk mak' fun,
They tak' their social friendly run
Half fu' that day.

Some rise to drink—some rise to eat—
Whilst many rise, alas ! to greet,
By loss o' friends, lie cold as sleet
By Death that day.

Such happen'd in a house weel kent, *
A house wha's tenant pays nae rent,
Because to him it's only lent
From day to day ;

Just like oursel's, wou'd we reflect,
This frame to us is only let;
But we, like bairns, may tak' the pet,
And flit some day.

Sic themes as these—think shame to tell,
To flit from earth, by dint o' sel',
The common d------d, shun them in hell,
Wi' fright that day.

TAM WILLIAMS died a strae-bed. death ;
To leave his birth he wou'd been laith,
An inflamation stopt his breath,
Sair pain'd that day.

No sooner had he ta'en his flight,
When many, many weary wight,
Petitioning for his birth that night,
Wi' speed that day.

But to our Elegy, be brief,
He that o' life deprives the thief,
Unless he turns o'er a new leaf,
Fu' quick some day.

Yes, TAMMIE WILLIAMS is fairly gone,
An' left a widow sore to moan ;
But our gude town—tho' made o' stone,
Provides that day.

EPITAPH.

HERE lies TAM WILLIAMS, our city Dempster, 
At times he was right social good ;
He was the Prince of ony Hemp-ster,
But now, alas ! for worm she's food.
His trust in Him, when in distress, 
Altho' he had a hangman's faut,
Nae doubt he hung up many a GLASS,
But tell me wha hates juice o' maut ?

The Magistrates of Edinburgh caused him to be buried
respectably, in the Greyfriars' Church Yard, on Tues-
day evening, the 8th January, in as quiet a manner as
possible, under the direction of his son, which took place
at about half-past five, by the light of the Moon.

*  Foot of Old Fishmarket Close.

 †Hangman, or Doomster.

‡All the time of his illness the Bible was his only book.E    L     E     G      Y,

On the Death of Hary Ormiston, late
Hangman in Edinburgh.

  O Curs'd Atropus cruel Wife!
Rob'd us of Hary tane his Life;
Who boor your Armour and the Knife,

Cut many's Thread,
And pat an End to meikle Strife,

But now he's dead.

He's doubtless dead and D—l ma-care,

For Sutherland's become his Air ;

Who Thieves and Robbers winna spair,

                      I'll pond a Plack,

Nor of the Spulzie take a Share

To spair their Back.

Whoors, Thieves Robbers, Whilliewhaws,
Who vallow neither Locks nor Laws; 
Did you e're taste kind Hary's Taws ?

Greet out your Een,
Come ye in hit Successor's Claws,

He'll Cow you  clean,

Tho' he cou'd Girning like a Tiger,
List up his Hand with mighty Viger,
And with the Taws discribe a Figer :

He laid them on
But either Wrath, Dispite or Rigor ;

But now he's gone.

When he the fatal Stage did Jump on,
With Wallet, Liv'ry Coat and Hump on ;
At ance he laid so clean a Thump on,

And cut so fair,
To them he only left the Stump on,

And shame head mair.

But when a claw'd Crown he did fear,
Well cu'd he counterfeit a Tear ;
And look with Visage more Austear

And Grimer Postures,
Then Neptune chasing up the Rear

Of Borea's Bloisters.

But  if the Croud disdaining look't,
Then up his Courage soon he pluckt,
And sleely turn'd about and meck't

To tie the Teather ;
With brazen Face and Bonnet cock't,

He scanst the Lether.

All Strumpets for Sculdudrie Sin,
To Leith Wynd Foot Condemn'd to spin,
Let Tears like Tweed from Tinto rin,   

              Weep for auld Hary,

For Sutherland will Taun your Skin              

And never spare you.

Make Calton Rocks and Craigie Wells,

Ajacent Hight where Echo dwells,

Resound your hideout Shouts and Yells:        

Ye Bedlam People,
Cry louder than the common Bells

In Mad'lin Steeple,

Lament his Death Fish-Mercat-Closs
Weep frae the Cowgate to the Cross,
Ye never met with sick a Loss;                     

Less  ye forget him,
Or he corrupt amo' the Dross,

Dry like Skeat him.

Let Tears frae a your Eyes Distil,
Like Tod's Walls frae the Castle-Hill;
To you he alwise show'd good Will,

Gi him his Praise.
And gave you ay a hearty Fill,

On Hanging Days.

Who'll norm decide your Kible Cables
About your Fish Stands, Stools and Tables,
For Sutherland can speak tut Babbles :

Without Remeed,
Ye'll Live in Strife, Debeats and Rables,

Since Hary's dead.

When ought was lost, we need but spear,
At Hary, for he was no Lier,
And gi'm a  hearty Pot of Beer,

He'd tell the Trajick,
Much sooner than Cathcart the Sier,

By Spell or Magick:

EPITAPH.

THE Man who liv'd by choaking Breath,
Ly's here, at Length o'rcome by Death.

An other   ELEGY   done by another Hand.

AN has ald Death come in his Rage,
Cut Hary's Breath, and aff the Stage

Has pull'd him now ?   I dare engage,
            Few can fulfil

His Place, I'm sure few in this Age,

For Art and Skill.

He serv'd his Time to George his Brother,
Who was more careful than another,
In every Point for to discover,

Folk for to kill,
And make them die without a Fever,

Against their Will.

Three noble Arts he had, I know,
In short, to you I will them show :
The First was General Provo,

        A Man of War,
Whom Death into the Grave did throw,
Without a Skar.

When Hary walked Down the Bow,
As stout as any Hero dow,
He was when he the Crowd went throw
Fight well attended,

And in his Wallat bore the Tow,                 

Folks Days that ended.

When ever he got them in's Teather,

He would have slipt them o're the Leather,

As tender hearted as a Father,

And so discreet,
Before they'd hurt their Neck had rather,

Pou down their Feet.

A Doctor was the Second Art,

That Hary had, who was so smart,

So skilfully that every Part,                     :

He could have heal'd
His Patients so that no sick Heart,

Nor pain would feel'd.

This Doctor's gone A'las, A las !

For Death on him has turn'd the Chase

And sent him of in a short Space,

But how he fares,
We do not ken, nor to what Place,

There's few that cares.

FINIS.