An ENCOMIASTICK  EPIGRAM

Upon the most  ANTIENT  and   HONOURABLE   TRADE

                                          OF

MASONS.

By Mr. WILLIAM GEDDES, Late Minister at Urquhart.

AMong Mechanicks, MASONS I extoll,
      And with the best I doubt not to Enroll.
  Before the Flood* Antiquity they Claime,			*Antiquity and Noble Precedents.  

  The MASON then must have an antient Name.

  When Godly* Enoch by his Divine Art,				* Josephus de Antiq. Jud. Jude Epist 

        He did foretell how that the World should smart

     By Fire and Water, he two Pillars made,

     The one with Brick, and one with Stone was laid :

     He wrote thereon all Sciences and Arts,

     Some knowledge to Diffuse in  all Mens hearts.

     If Water came, the Stone might it endure ;

     The Brick the Fire ; so all continued sure.

     The*  Moral-Law, in writ none could it have,		* EXOD. 32.  

   Till GOD Himself in Stone he must it Grave.

 For Hewing Stone, none can put you to shame,

 The Corner-Stone, to JESUS  is a Name :			Honorable and mysterious Badge. 
  For this I think the MASON must be Blest,

From antient times he hath a Divine*  Crest. 			*A Metaphore taken from a part of the coat of Arms.
A Character whereby they know each other,
And yet so Secret, none knows but a Brother.

All Temples,  Turrets,*   Pallaces  of  Kings,			* Noble  and  Stately Works
All Castles, Steeples, aud such other things :
Strong Holds and Houses, which do long endure,
Do owe all what they have to MASONS CURE.
All Courts great Grandeur, and Magnifick State,
What Pomp they have, from MASONS they doget  ;

The strictest Laws  they  have for* Common-well,		*Law and order. 
The greatest Charity when BRETHREN  fail,

Symbols Divine, *Pomp, Dwelling, Law and Love ;			*The sum of all
Few are the Men who  do such Tradsmen  prove.The Royal Robe.

all you knight templars that dwell around the globe,
wear the badge of honour, I mean the royal robe:
oah he wore it in the ark where he stood,
the world was destroyed by a delugeing flood.

be was righteous in the sight of the Lord,
ved a Freemason that knew the secret word;
lled the earth and planted the first vine
glories in heaven like angels do shine.

Once I was blind and I could not see the light,
It was to Jerusalem I then took my flight,
They led me through the wilderness with a multitude of care,
You may know me by the sign of the badge that I wear.

O when I think on Moses I cannot but blush,
And likewise on Mount IIoreb and on the burning bush:
My shoes I threw off and my staff I cast away,
Like a pilgrim I'll wander until ray dying day.

twelve dazzling lights- I saw which put me in surprise,
And looking all around me I heard a dreadful noise;
A serpent passed by me I fell upon the ground,
Then with peace, joy and comfort the grand secret I found.

The secret was wast and afterwards was found,
So was our blessed Saviour it is very well known;
In the garden of Gethsemane he sweat a bloody sweat,
So repent my loving brethren before it is too late.

Against Turk, Jew, and infidels we always do fight,
To let the wondering world know we're always in the right
Search the Scriptures over, it is there to be found,
That the tree that bears no fruit it ought to be cut down.

To raise the ark np higher we will join our hands,
The almighty ordered Moses to pour water on dry land,
Out of a clear fountain from Eden it did spring,
Where Eve tempted Adam, by a serpent was stung.

I never will stand for to hear the orphan cry
Nor, yet forget a widow, until the day I die,
In heaven is our grand lodge, and St. Peter keeps the door,
And no one  can enter but those that are pure. 