A Full and Particular Account of the Trial & Sentence
of JOHN COUNTERFEIT, who was sentenced to
be Pillored at the Cross of Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day, 14th March, 1821, for Willful Imposition, &c.

AT EDINBURGH, on Monday the 12th March, 1821, came on,
before the High Court of Justice and Reason, the trial of
JOHN COUNTERFEIT, a very noted character, accused of felon-
iously, wickedly, maliciously, and falsely assuming the authority,
dress, and character of a High Personage of the first distinction;
of forcibly entering the dwelling-house of an elderly respectable
Lady, residing in the New Town of the Metropolis of Scotland ;
and of demanding money and other property, in the assumed name
and character of the Prince and Power of the Air!

Candid Truth and Sterling Justice, two very respectable old
ladies, were then brought forward by the public prosecutor, in
support of the libel. The first witness, Candid Truth, was solemn-
ly sworn, by Lord Justice Reason, who deponed-That upon the
23d day of February last, the prisoner feloniously and forcibly en-
tered the house of Mrs---------, No. -, ------Street, New Town,
Edinburgh, dressed in the skin of a Buffalo, or other wild animal,
with large horns in his forehead, and having a long bushy tail be-
hind ; and threatened to take Mrs ----------into his custody imme-
diately, unless she would deliver her money, jewels, and other va-
luable property into his hands instantly : that the old lady, seeing
his horns, and other awful appearances, doubted not but he was
Auld Clooty himself, delivered immediately into the prisoner's
hands one  hundred pounds sterling, being all the money she had
at the time in her possession, and set an hour for him to return next
day to get the remainder of her property; but officers were in atten-
dance at the appointed time, and he was made prisoner on his ap-
pearance. All which were corroborated by Sterling Justice, the
other witness for the prosecution.    The Lady herself identified the
prisoner's person, and deponed, that on his entering her bed-room,
she thought to herself that he was Belzebub, and was the more
confirmed in this opinion, by the declaration of her two servant
maids, Prejudice and Superstition, who respectively stated, that,
within their own knowledge, many such like demands were made
by him on genteel families of their acquaintance, which were never
refused, as the consequence would be dreadful indeed.

No exculpatory evidence being adduced, the Jury were ably ad-
dressed, at considerable length, by Mr Common Sense, for the crown,
and the learned Mr Quirk, for the prisoner, when Justice Reason
summed up the evidence, in his usual, impartial style. The Jury,
having retired for about half an hour, brought a verdict of guilty of
Willful Imposition and Robbery against the prisoner; and found
Prejudice and Superstition, the two waiting-maids, guilty, art and
part, of assisting him in the said imposition and robbery.

Lord Justice Reason then proceeded to pronounce the awful sen-
tence of the law upon the prisoner, and said, "John Counterfeit,
you have been found guilty, by a respectable jury of your country-
men, of two horrid crimes, willful imposition and robbery; of de-
manding a sum of money in the character of a personage to whom
money can be of no use ; endangering the life and reason of the
plaintiff, and disgracing the calling of a common thief; and, of
robbing the said plaintiff of one hundred pounds: therefore the
sentence of the court is-That you be confined in the Lock-up-
house of this city, without the light of the sun, or communication 
of man, till Wednesday the 14th March inst. On which day, at 12
o'clock, noon, you are to be brought from your dreary abode, and 
placed upon the Pillory, at the market cross of Edinburgh, for the
space of one hour, in the same inhuman garb in which you com-
mitted the unlawful crime for which you are to suffer, with a libel
on your breast, specifying the said crime, and accompanied by your
worthy associates, one on each side of you, and who will afterwards
be publicly rebuked in a full meeting of the Clashing Wives' Society. 
If, however, you be what you pretended, and can, without picking
locks or opening doors, make your escape, you will certainly avoid
this disgrace, and never be guilty of the like crimes again. 

Janet Clinker, in her weekly journal, quickly spread the news of
this comical trial and sentence, the day arrived, thousands of people
from all corners crowded to see the scene; but unfortunately, when
the hour came, and the cell was searched, the prisoner was no where
to be found. It was then alleged, that, by the assistance of a twig
from the same broomstick on which Meg Merrilees ascended from
the Earthen Mound about two years before, he made his way up
the lum, and thus escaped justice, to the great disappointment of
the numerous spectators assembled on the occasion.

Printed for William Cameron-PRICE ONE PENNY.LORD NICHOLSON,

FOR 

ONE NIGHT ONLY,

WILL HOLD A COURT

In, the Music Hall, George Street,

ON WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4, 1848.

LORDS BROUGHAM AND  NICHOLSON.

Comparo Virgilium cum Homero.

IT is agreed in all times that wits are privileged to--- wear what masks they please.
Ihis impunity has no doubt operated upon the minds of the distinguished individuals, whose
comparative characters we are about to submit to critical analysis. The unscrupulous
masquerading of these learned lords may fairly provoke a publicity of animadversion, which
composure of character and dignified retirement would disarm.

Brougham commenced his public carreer as a writer for the periodical press ; so did
Nicholson. Nicholson's practice was almost exclusively confined to side bar applications—
motions of course; Brougham's practice, although of more exalted pretensions, was not, in a
pecuniary sense, much larger. He was seldom retained for a plaintiff', and in the great
commercial cases he was invariably rejected,—Campbell, Scarlet, Gurney, Marryat, Best,
cum multis aliis, being preferred by solicitors intrusted with such interests. This policy was
construed by Brougham into neglect and insult, and there can be no doubt that it originated
the morbid antipathy against attornies, so frequently exhibited as an uncontrollable passion
by the noble lord in after life and power.

Nicholson, after a flourishing career at the bar, raised himself to the dignity of Chief
Baron, without filling the usual probationary offices of either Attorney or Solicitor-General.
Brougham assumed the office of Lord High Chancellor under precisely similar circumstances,
which might be remarked, " in equity," was neither fair nor advantageous. Brougham,
while Chancellor, played the mountebank by going like an itinerant showman from town to
town, dining, drinking, making speeches, and exhibiting himself at small cost to the multi-
tude, to the great scandal of his high office and exalted profession. Nicholson, soon after
his elevation, did the same thing. He, like his brother Brougham, was ushered into towns
and cities by bellman and placard. Both exhibitions were incompatible with forensic dignity
and the exalted position of the parties. Brougham, for the last few years, has identified him-
self with certain coteries of purple hosiery, who walk behind society, viz. at the back, and with
an excusable though overweening vanity, consider themselves before and above it. There is a
fable of "The Syrens on the charmed island,'' who by the sweetness of their music allured un-
thinking mariners to destruction." The coterie are the orchestral Syrens—Brougham the infa-
tuated Jack Tar. Nicholson has of late mixed himself up with des bas coleur de rose, and revels
in a lecture-room with poses plastiques, dressed in pink silks, and (as he himself somewhat
indefinitely describes it) draperies scrupulously arranged. Were ever two legal lords so equi-
vocally employed ! It has been said of Brougham, that he has lectured princes and instructed
the mechanic. Nicholson's audiences are certainly of a mixed class. Brougham is on terms
of intimacy with the sporting nobility: so is Nicholson. Brougham is fond of entertaining
distinguished visitors : Nicholson's talents and efforts are exercised to the same end. In
their speeches and literature they likewise resemble each other in a material point, viz., their
partiality for Latin quotations. Lord Brougham seldom makes a speech without the intro-
duction of Greek or Latin : Lord Nicholson never charges a jury without " great goes " of
Latin, and we have heard him quote HEBREW. A rich vein of humour characterises the
whole of Brougham's proceedings : the same feature is prominent in Nicholson. There is a
QUASI humour about his gravity which is irresistibly comic, and without Brougham's advan-
tage of pantomimic proboscis. In their favourite drinks there is but small difference, Brougham
patronising calidum cum, Nicholson, frigidumsine. Nicholson is never invited to the palace :
nor is Brougham. Nicholson smokes in court—a most unusual thing : Brougham does not
go so far as that; but we have observed him on board a steamer, quietly smoking along with
the funnel.

In satire Brougham is a second Juvenal, and Nicholson a second Brougham.

To those who are not in daily intercourse with the world, and have not by its friction been
sand-papered into scrutiny of its comparative eccentricities, our remarks may not be con-
vincing ; to such we say, observe for yourselves. You have heard of two faces under one
hat. These are two men under one vizard, "par nobile fratrum."—Liverpool Chronicle,
Oct. 17, 1846.

Doors open at 8—The Court will sit at Half-past 8 o'clock.

Admission—Body of the Hall, 3s.; Sides and Under the Gallery, 2s ;

Gallery, 1s.

James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street,A

R E C E I P T

TO   M A K E   A

LORD-PUDDING.

TAKE of the several simples of natural parts, two grains
of each ; of the compound of learning, three seruples;
of the corpus juris, half a pound; of the oil of clocution,
one dram ; of the alcohol of insolence, an English gallon ;
of the dregs of servility, six Scotch pints ; of the gum of
selfishness, one firlot Linlithgow measure; of the froth of
vanity, one barrel ; of the air of generosity, conveyed in
claret, one gut to the bonum magnum; of taste, patriotism;
magnanimity, a negative quantity of each.----—Mix all to-
gether in a large caldron of base metal, then put it over a
slow fire of Newcastle coal, newly lighted up with the
Scots militia-bill, adding to the fire a new born Jacobite
every quarter of a minute; keep it simmering till it jellies,
then put it into a bladder of self  sufficiency, and hang it
up in the sunshine of court-favour for use. No receipt in
Europe makes a better lord-pudding.TOM AND JERRY.

A DIALOGUE BETWEEN A WHIG AND A TORY.    

As Jerry Whig went out one day		Says Jerry, Tom, I'm glad we've met,
He met his friend Tom Tory;			To have some conversation;
Now Jerry was a Scotsman bred,		What must be done for Britain's sons,
And Tom was England's glory.		I want your observation.

Tom.—My friend, Jerry, you ask me what must be done for Britain's sons ? what
more can be done for them than what we have done ? in 1829 we granted them Eman-
cipation ; they then petitioned for Reform, we granted them that also ; now, my friend,
I  wish to know what more they want. Jerry —I wonder you should speak obout
Emancipation, all the good it has done is, that it it has got some great men into high-
er situations in life thon those which they had been before. but it is an old sayiny,
Tom, 'a man that has a goose will get a goose 'but on the other hand, see what it
has done especially for the poor Irish 40s freeholders; it has driven numbers of them
out of their bit places, and sent them to wander to other nations in search of employ-
ment ; now, Tom, you see, a man that cannot pay £10, of rent, he is debarred from
his rights; so when he is exempted from having a vote for the representative for his
country, he ought to be exempted from Taxes : but as for Reform, we have got very
little more than the name.

So now, friend Tom, you plainly see		Our duty now we must fulfil
There's something more still wanting:		Unto the British nation.
It's time to set the prisoners free,		Make them give up the Corn Bill,
For Freedom they are panting.		        And Tithes' abomination.


Tom.—My friend, Jerry, it would not answer for either you or I to middle with
the Corn Bill, as we have great landed properties, for self-interest goes far : how
would the farmers pay us our rents if we were to do away with the Corn Laws ? but
let the poor suffer as they will, we must mind No. 1.

The poor no longer we must scoff,		Against Church Patronage give your voice,
Belonging to this nation,			This time, I now do charge you,
Thisthing call'd Tithes must soon come off	And let the people have their choice,
To lighten their Taxation.			Of choosing their own Clergy.

Tom.—My friend, Jerry, I really am surprised to think that a man endued with
such knowledge as you are, would speak against the tithe system ; you know very
well that the tithe system is of an old standing : for when Abraham was returning
from the slaughter of the kings, he gave the tenth of the spoil to Melchizedek: the
tribe of Levi was allowed no inheritance in the land of Canaan, but the tithes. Jerry.
—We are bound to support Church and State, I think that is all very true, Tom, but
they had no glebe lands in those days, nor so many hundreds a-year off Government:
they could not drive through the nation in their coach-and four, and their livery ser-
vants, neither could they pay a man £40 or £50 a year, to officiate in their place, they
had to stick to the altar daily, and live by the altar Tom—But, Jerry, you speak
about taxes, you know that we are to render to Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's.
Jerry—Aye but, Tom, we have got too many Cæsars now-a-days to oppress the poor:
but, Tom, it was an easy thing in those days to pay tribute, when they had nothing.
to do but go to the sea, and catch a fish with a piece of money in its mouth—an easy
way indeed to pay tribute : but Tom, thero's no such fishes to be caught now-a-days
—if there were, the poor would get but little share of them.

In February, the 4th day,			O'Connell and a number more,
We all must go to London,			Are joined in a communion,
To fall to work, without delay,		        To have justice done to Ireland,
I think we'll see some fun done.		Or a repeal of the Union.


Tom.—My friend, Jerry, I know Mr O'Connell is a long-headed man, and a man
of great talents, he certainly must be a very wise man, for he has wrought himself and
his friends into Parliament by his policy, but there are very few men get into Parlia-
ment but what have self-interest at heart : now, my friend, Jerry, I will ask you a
questien, If you had signed your portion over to a friend before witnesses, how would
you get it back? It would be impossible unless your friend was willing to give it up
again—O'Connell may say what he pleases, but at this very time he will meet with
great opposition: how many Reformers, at the last election. who promised to do won-
ders for the people, but when they got into Parliament, they were like the chief but-
ler with Joseph, they soon forgot them they acted far worse than the Tories. Jerry.
—I confess you have spoken the candid truth, yet we must do something for the poor.

Now, Jerry, man, let us agree,		The poor right manfully have stood,
To you I will strike under,			To have their country righted,
We'll set the British captives free,		We're all come of one flesh and blood,
And pluck their chains asunder.		Then why should they be slighted.
	
Menzies, Printer, 30, Bank Street, Edinburgh.OLD TOWN ZOOLOGICAL

SECOND ATTACK!

OF THE

Wild Beasts upon their Keeper

IN

THE ROYAL CIVIC ARENA,
ROYAL EXCHANGE, EDINBURGH :

showing how the Animals Fought and how their Keeper Defended

himself.

 The House being crowded in every part to excess,   hundreds,  eager  to  gain
admission, were reluctantly obliged to go away.

THE usual Overture was played by the Band in attendance; con-
cluding very appropriately, with the New Song of

Come you here the Fecht to see,                                         
Or hear the fun wi' me, man !         
Or saw you ever sich a den,            
As our Menagerie, man !           

THE Curtain then rose, displaying all the wild animals in diffe-
rent attitudes. The Grampus came forward, and announced that
he had been to the " first Weird" and engaged a Stut—the Hippo-
potatoe-tamus put them in mind that he was a Hooded Stut, and
would prove a very tractable and rare animal in the collection. The
Keeper then got him duly in-stalled; but contrary to all expectations,
he kicked and gored him the moment he was introduced. The
small ape,Genus Legal, who had been trained to perform at the
Bar of the Parliament Coffee-house, came forward to the front of
the stage. He seemed very sick, and cried for a pail of water,
which was instantly brought in. He said that he had been de-
puted by the rest of the animals to lead the attack, and to seize
upon, and gag the Keeper, a duty he was very unwilling to per-
form, but which he was obliged to attempt, in order to prevent
himself being torn to pieces by the more ravenous animals, (great
growling in the Menagerie). He tugged and drew, and like most
animals of his species, tried to make the worse appear the better
reason. But his logic seemed too big for his understanding, and
he was observed to take several awkward turns to recover his wits,
 and make himself intelligible,—each attempt, however, only
served to make his case the more obscure. At last, he sat down
amidst the hisses of the audience, mingled with the growls of the
animals. Then the poor old chained rickety Fox, with a lean and
hungry look, presented himself, and called forth the com-
miseration of all present, from his ill-conditioned appearance and
inability,—not his unwillingness to shew his teeth and fight, for
he seemed as fierce and ravenous as ever.—But Genus Medicœ,
always ready with his usual talent, came to the rescue, and
said, that the beasts who had already shown themselves, talked
of spliting hares, and putting their Keeper through the eye of a
needle, but that he was prepared to dissect the whole Mena-
gerie of wild animals, and to show by their different formations,
that it was their natural ravenous propensities and revengeful
dispositions, and not as they said, the honour of the Menagerie, that
had called forth this attack, and that they might rest assured that
the public would not suffer them to go howling after their Keeper
wherever he went, (great cheers by the audience), which was check-
ed by the Keeper, who said this noise only made the Animals the
more ferocious. Several wild animals, roused by the noise, grunted
and growled, and the Wright Hyena made an attempt to devour
a Miller who was near him, but he was secured, and chained up.
The Keeper remarked, that he had observed the poor Ourang-
Outang to be in labour for about a week- past, and fully expected
a whiskered production like itself; but lo, and behold ! he had to
tell the audience, that the only production of this week's labours
was a very small mouse, which the Fox and Ourang-Outang were
nursing between them—a natural curiosity, that must prove a
great attraction to the Menagerie. The attention of the audience
was then directed to a small whelp, the Son of Gib, who had been
reared in the Riccarton Kennel. It was expected to fight by the
side of the Keeper, but its toe had been severely tread on by the
Boot of the great Gulliver, and it could not show battle. The
Keeper said that the animals must now see that all their attempts
to injure him must recoil on their own heads, and make them
to be more securely caged up.

The Keeper then apologized for the crowded state of theTheatre,
which, he had no doubt, was caused by this extraordinary attack ;
but the animals had all promised to confine themselves, in future,
to their proper dens, and be peaceable. He therefore closed the
exhibition for the day, and said that the animals might go and
scratch themselves, which so delighted the Hippo-potatoe-tamus,
that he actually held out a foot to be shaken by the Keeper, in
token of future obedience, and that dignified functionary actually
condescended to handle him, amidst shouts of laughter from the
whole house. After which, the curtain dropt.[     ICAL]

GRAND

Zoological Entertainment

IN THE                                            

ROYAL CIVIC ARENA,

ROYAL EXCHANGE, EDINBURGH,

On   TUESDAY FIRST,   the 29th  instant,

Will be performed here for the First time, on a Grand Scale, the new and interesting
DRAMA of

THE WILD BEASTS ATTACKING
THEIR KEEPER.   



FOR the information of those who may not be acquainted with the nature of such
Exhibitions, it may be necessary to state, that the Actors were led to the attempt
from the great success which attended the introduction of Wild Animals upon the
boards of the Theatres Royal; and however much these exhibitions have been ap-
plauded, the Actors in the Royal Exchange entertain sanguine hopes that their En-
tainments will not fall short of even the best efforts of the best actors in these
Theatres. The first effort of the Company in this walk, was to exhibit a grand
attack of the wild and ferocious animals upon the tame, which afforded great
amusement to the spectators for some time. At length a victim was singled out,
and all the wild animals made a dead set at him. But he, however, proved too
heavy a match for the whole Menagerie, from a consciousness of his own strength,
and being well guarded by the bars of good service, and the invulnerable shield of
public opinion. As in the case of the Lion Nero when baited by a host of dogs, the
public thought the sport partook too much of " Cruelty to Animals," separated the
combatants by sending them to Ward (the Second), when the Electors chained up
the grim and Black Britannica Mastiff that led the attack, and put the little
conceited Cur, " Jugurtha," that accompanied him, under the Turf, and neither of
them have been heard of since.

Some of the former Actors, however, were resolved to have another attempt at
these recreations, and being strengthened by new recruits, "young nimals" from
the Cowgate, and other districts, they resolved upon a representation on a grand
scale.—A meeting of 18 of them was privately held, the plot was arranged, and a
rehearsal took place. In strict accordance with the propensity of all savage tribes
and wild animals to attack their superiors, they resolved in this instance, that the
attack should be made upon their Right Honourable Keeper. The plot was based
on the historical fact, that the Keeper had dared to dine in human and humane
society, and not in the Menagerie, which greatly displeased the savage part of the
Collection, particularly the Hippo-potatoe-tamus, (which, by the bye, is rather a
carniverous than a herbiverous specimen of the species). This uncouth monster
complained that he had not been taken along with the Keeper to eat up the bones
and scraps which he left,—and he insisted that, (as was obvious to every Observer,)
the savage animals being in the majority, they ought, with one accord, to attack
and rend the Keeper. Hippo, also declared, that the Keeper was too good and too
learned for their Menagerie,—that he had in a metaphorical speech attempted to
detract from their merits, by describing a set of animals who went at large, of the
GENUS CLIQUE-a  species, he said, that " forgot nothing, and forgave nothing,"
and who, on discovering a vulnerable part, if even in the heel, they, tiger-
like, spring upon their victim to destruction." As there was no Tiger in the
Royal Exchange Collection, and as it was well known that most of the
animals partook more of the nature of the Wolf and the Fox than of the
Lion and Tiger, and believing there could be no race more vindictive and re-
lentless than themselves, they could not believe that his metaphorical speech
applied to any other Collection, and they were therefore well entitled to be wroth
with him for daring to describe them out of their proper Den, and came to an unani-
mous resolution, that if not destroyed, he should, at least, be instantly bound and
gagged. At the rehearsal, and as a preliminary to the Drama, a letter was written
to the Keeper, demanding to be informed if he really had dined with gentlemen, and
described the Menagerie there. To this letter as they expected, the Keeper made no
reply, but treated it with marked contempt, denying their right to question or gag
him, and declaring that he was their independent Keeper, by virtue of an Act of
Parliament, that he would go where he pleased, and speak when and how he pleased.
The Actors having got their parts assigned them for the Tuesday's exhibition, and
the Drama having been well advertised, a considerable audience attended the Theatre.
Owing, however, to some of the Actors not having got their parts well learned, the
company was treated to a very small encounter, led on by a young, though vigorous
and talented specimen of the " Genus Legal," who sustained his part without that
ferocity the spectators had expected. He seemed, upon the whole, unwilling to the
work, and gave decided indications that he may not play at all next week. The
second part, was sustained by a lank greyish-looking old Fox of the genus " Sub-
Legal," supposed to be originally from Glasgow. The chain of this animal seemed
to restrain his efforts a good deal ; and although he would fain have bitten the
Keeper by way of diverting the audience from his awkward position, he could not
accomplish it, and, upon the whole, his attack was considered a failure. Seeing the
unhappy manner in which the Drama was likely to end, a well-conditioned little crea-
ture of the "Genus Medicœ,"with great tact, turned the tide of applause from the Ac-
tors to the Keeper. He said, with much feeling, that he hated all such beastly exhibi-
tions, and that the Theatre should be kept for the performance of the Legitimate Civic
Drama, for which it was built, and that the handbill for next week's entertainment
should be thrown out of the Menagerie. Here the dignified little Keeper drew him-
self up in the attitude of defence, and keenly eyeing the most ferocious of the brutes,
said he knew well the nature of the animals he had to contend with—that they being
at present the majority of the Menagerie, he also knew he had no chance with them
__had nothing but a furious combat to expect; but that, as the responsible head of the
Theatre, he solemnly protested against the proposed Drama, as tending to lower the
Actors in the estimation of the public; and instead of gaining them " the praise and
protection of such as do well," would make them a "scoff and a bye-word" throughout
the civilized globe. As the audience had come for sport, however, he would treat
them to some little fun, grounded upon the plot which the " eighteen" had laid—he
would merely refer to some of their names, as sufficient amusement for the remain-
der of the day's entertainment —First, he found a Goose which had lain for more than
eleven years on the Banks of the Menagerie, but who, as the feeders well knew, had
laid anything but golden eggs—more than once, they were found rotten, and brought
but a small dividend of their price,—next he found the clumsey, unwashed, Hippo-
potatoe-tamus, with a Wright sort of a Hyena, who licks his toes, and lies obedient
at his side,—the two Dunkeys, elder & younger, were there,—the whiskered & senior
chained Ourang-outang, although he did not  expect him was there he had  though
that all his former caressing might have [   ] return from this animal,-
the silver-working Grampus and the [   ] in chains) were there,-
the Grey Stot, and Stirk, the Sloth, (genus [   ]ammarian) were there,-the
Ougly-Muck, and Friend-S------ks, (new importation, were there,-Sly Wig Gawky
and the old Chained Boar from the Canongate, were the,-the latter animal was
only expected to grunt when his chain was pulled this being considered the height
of his ability At this stage of the performance, the Hippo-potatoe-tamus gave a loud
growl, which was speedily checked by the Keeper, who reminded him of his newly
assumed character,and that although he had been accustomed all his days to wal-
low in  the mire, now that he had got into the company of more cleanly animals he
must really try to learn better manners.This closed     the performance,and the
audience left on the understanding, that the second part of the Drama is to come
off next Tuesday, and that the public will be supplied in good time with the names
racters of the Actors.WONDERFUL ESCAPE   &    APPREHENSION
                    

 OF

DAN O' CONNELL.

FROM HIS PLACE OF CONFINEMENT ON MONDAY
LAST, AND WHO so AGITATED THE MINDS OF THE
PEOPLE, BY HIS FEROCIOUS CONDUCT THAT A VIG-
OROUS PURSUIT WAS MADE  AFTER HIM. AND IN A
FEW HOURS HE WAS APPREHENDED. AND SAFELY
LODGED IN DURANCE VILE.

A few weeks since a paragraph went the round of the London and
Provincial   Newspapers, respecting  the escape of a Lion   and   Tiger
from Wombell's Menagerie whilst travelling in   Northambtonshire.
The whole story   has since   turned   out to be a  fabrication;  but   on
Monday morning last, one of the Lions belonging to  that collection
actnally   escaped  just before   day-break,  in  the village of Bowes, in
Yorkshire.     It appears from information received from the spot, that
the collection was on its way to Ripin fair, and had halted at Bowes
for the night ; but a number of boys had gathered round the caravan
and had during   the evening   made a small hole   in one corner of it.
for the purpose of getting a gratuitous peep at the King of the forest.
it is supposed, by  the Keeper, that this small apartment was some what
enlarged after   himself and others connected with the Menagerie had
retired;   but no suspicion   was   created,  or   alarm thougot   of, till a
ternfic roar  resounded  through the village.   A joiner named Harris-
on   was first  aroused,  and   having opened his window saw the  Lion,
who is a decsendant or the   renowned  Wallace, and named   ' Daniel
O'Connell.'  taking most majestic  strides   towards a   flock    of geese
which, after  selecting one for his own picking he most   unceremoniuosly devoured.
The village was now in one general state of alarm; the
windows were thrown open and scores might  be  seen   surveying the
movements of  the great ', AGITATOR" and disturber of their re—
pose.     At lenght   wm. Lennox. the   keeper, accompanied by George
Briden  har e- keeper to the  caravans,  and several other  servants be-
onging to the Menagerie,  sallied  forth   in pursuit;  and just as  the
powerful animal was   leaving the   town   eastward.   they succeeded   in
puruing his course    to a   back  lane.      Lennox,   with   only   a whip in
his hand,   seized Dan  by the tail;   and at   the imminent danger of his
life, kept him    at   bay   till   the other  individnals   came up,   and  with
properatus,   secured   him.  After this was done,  five   hours  elapsed
before this was done.   whon he was placed   in ins proper quaiters.     It
was impossible to drag him,  even   with   strong   ropes,  owing to    the
force with which be fixed   his   claws  in the ground ;  boards were  at
brought,   and   thus  he   was ultimately    drawn to   the    caravan. No
further mischief beyond   scartering the  geese occurred.

The  Reader wil perceive   by this,  that it is not  Daniel  O'Connell
Esq.   M P but a  Lion called   by that  name.

R-printed from a copy—the  lmprint bearing Wm  Carse, Glasgow
This  day, ( Monday,   16th   June,   1834) the   Lord  Justice  Clerk
and  Lords Com mssioners of Justiciary,  met at  the usual   hour and
disposed of the following cases.-

Alexander Young a good looking young man, was first placed at
the bar charged with having broken open the stable of Mr Stobbo,
Branton. in the county of Haddiagton, on the 2lst March last,
atnd with having stolen therefrom mare, and a saddle ; also with
stealing a number of sacks, and a quantity of corn from a barn, the
property of the said Mr Stobbo.  

The  pannel pleaded guilty to the charge of theft, and the Solicitor
General having passed   from   the charge   of   housebreaking.  he   was
sentenced to 7 years transportation.     Previous to sentence being pro-
nounced, the advocate   for the pannel stated to the   Court,   that   his
client when   first   incarceraced, although at the   age of  manhood, did
not know the alphabet, by his unreinitting atrention to the instruct-
ions of the   Jailor's son   he could now read   the sacred  Scriptures.
The poor fellow  wept incessently during the trial.

Robert and William Barrie, carters from Haddington, were called
on a charge of assault and were outlawed for non appearance, their
bail bond  forfeited  and their goods, gear and effects confiscated to
the Crown.                                                       FORBES, EDIN.A   GRAND

SMOKING CONCERT

WILL BE HELD IN

Janefield Cemetry,

On Sunday=Monday Evening,

Suctober Forty-Tooth.

Dugald M'Google, B.A. M.U.D. in the Chair.

The following array of Artistes will appear: —

Miss MARIE   M'MOOTER,
The Extinguished Soprano, from all the principal Poorhouses
in the Country.

The   NINE   BROTHERS   MUCK,
Champion Bar Performers, Sword Swallowers, and Nose Pol-
ishers. Direct from Peterhead.

THOMA8   TOOLE
The Tinplate Tenor, who has appeared before all the Crown
Heads, Round Heads, Square Heads, Stair Heads, Dead
Heads, and Sheep Heads of England, Ireland, Scotland,
Europe, and Ballyholley. Mr Toole will give a New Song,
written by the late celebrated song-rotters and imposers,
Burke and Hare.

THE   SINGING   POLICEMAN,
This gentleman's wonderful voice was discovered one evening
about two hours after he had investigated a Public-House.
Come and see his feet.

Return to Scotland, after an absence of 240 years, of

Signor RUNCO   M'BUNKO,
The Quick-change Artiste who created such a furore in Burns'
Model on the occasion of his last visit.

Welcome re-appearance of the Great and Only

SAM'L  SLICKS,
Londonderry Comedian, Fire-Eater, and Sheep-Stealer.      Mr
S. S. completed the longest engagement of any Artiste on
the local boards—21 years without a break—in Dartmoor.

SEVERAL OTHER STOMACH-TURNS WILL TURN UP.

TICKETS—Front Tombstones, 2s 6d ; Back Tombstones, Half-a-Crown.

Concert at 8 p.m. prompt.    Fighting at five minutes past 8 p.m. prompt.

DON'T FORGET—SUNDAY-MONDAY, SUCTOBER the 42th.
(ALL RIGHTS RESERVED).   

L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate,  Dundee.BY  ROYAL  COMMAND.

THE following Rules and Regulations have been drawn up for the purpose
of putting down all forms of sin and vice:—

1.  No one to be out after dark.

2.  All people out of work, and those that are
starving, if they do not die within forty-eight hours
will be cremated alive.

All children born after January, 1905, to be fed
on asses' milk, until they are twenty-five years of age;
for, be it known, that our great Parliament of wise
heads has very graciously extended the years of
Babyhood.

4.  Any one caught laughing, or singing songs, or
playing any kind of musical instrument, will be sent
to jail for the full term of their natural lives.

5.  Any   man   or   woman   heard   using   strong
language in the presence of a Policeman,  such  as
"Pip! Pip!"  "Sugar and Tongs," or, "Go to the
Devil!" shall be immediately proclaimed a dangerous
lunatic; and the said policeman shall have the power
of ordering a straight jacket, so that the said offender
may be taken off to a padded room.

6.  No Publican to have a voice in anything; as
he has become a thorough nondescript, through his
own inherent weakness and in ability to defend him-
self. The LAW very generously permits a Land-
lord to select his own place of burial.

7.  Every three  months, the Great  Local
Magnates of Social Reform will distribute Prizes to
those   who   have  cultivated   the  longest  and most
miserable Face; as beauty and cheerfulness belong to
sin and the devil.

8.  All shops, public-houses, and private houses to
be closed by 9 p.m. in summer, and 6 p.m. in winter

9.  All Theatres and Music Halls to be  entirely
closed , except on Sundays, when they will be used for
the purpose of holding Mothers' Meetings.

10.  All worldly books to be suppressed at once.

11.  Anyone found reading a frivolous or Worldly
Novel will have seven days in the Pillory.

12.   Mothers' Meetings to be held three nights a
week—Mondays  Wednesdays, and Saturdays. All
over seven years of age must attend.  Non compliance
with this most solemn command will be punished by
fine and imprisonment.

13. Young men and women eligible for courtship
must get the sanction of the Wish-I-may-die Society."

14. Any man going for a walk without his wife,
shall forfeit all rights of citizenship, and be expelled
from the " Wish-I-may-die Society."

 15. Bigamy will be punished by sudden death.

16.  All fresh Air to be taxed; and even the Sun
will not be permitted to shine, without a permit from
the " Wish-I-may-die Society."

17.  Every Policeman to have a good moral char-
acter, must hold teetotal principals, and be strictly
pious.

18.  All Publicans to attend the "Wish-I-may-die
Society" twice each Sabbath day.  Non compliance
with this most solemn rule, the licence will be en-
dorsed.

19.  Respectability to be a very prominent feature
in our new code of moral discipline. All male attire
to be black, female loveliness to be draped in white,
the emblem of Purity.

20.  All tom eats to be strangled immediately they
are born as they are like the human mind for solemn
devotions.

21.  Any person caught minding his own business
will be fined 10s.

22. Any person caught playing penny nap will be
sentenced to 7 years penal servitude.

23. Every person earning 18s. and upwards per
week must get a permit from the " Wish-I-may-die
Society " to spend the said 18s., with full instructions
as to how it shall be spent.

24.   All liberty to be  banished from the country
after this date, as we are no longer free agents.    A
General Meeting to be held on the first day of every
month.

25.  All intoxicating drinks to be labelled " Sin and
the Devil," so that the innocent shall not fall.

26. Those who fail to carry out the above rules and
regulations for the better government of Society,
shall not enjoy the rest of the Saints, but shall be
cast into outer darkness, where the " Moral Man "
goeth not.

27. We (the Great and All-powerful), intend to
enjoy ourselves as we think fit, as we have bought the
Earth. The poor have no right to live.Humours of the Age!

Chuse where and what you will, here are some things
new to suit and to please Old and Young, Deaf
and Dumb, Mad, Lame and Lazy, Young Men who
walk in their Sleep, Old Maids who have no Teeth,
and Dairy Maids; Cheats and Dandies, containing
the Humours of the Age, being Whimsical, Witty
and Diverting!

I never think of a wife until I am hungry, and then I look for
a lewd woman, in hopes she will find me a morsel of bread.

I love whisky and strong beer twice in the year, that is summer
and winter.

I hate Lawyers and Liars, because they breed wrangling and
jangling.

I would be a soldier, was there all plundering and no fighting.

I love a clergyman that practises what he preaches, for other-
wise we must mind what he says and not what he does.

If ever I marry I will have the ugliest woman I can find, then I
shall have her to myself.

Shew me a poet, a painter, and a quaker, and I will shew you
three liars.

Of all men in the world blind men walk most upright, so they
are the most charitable, for they never see their neighbours faults.

Of all people I pity lewd women, for they hazard both soul and
body for a bad living.

Sailors are the bravest and the merriest fellows in the world, for
they drink and dance when there is but one inch between them and
a watery grave.

The astrologer is a wise man, he can foretell future events, but
not the man that cuckolds him, nor when.

Tea and tobacco are pernicious weeds, and grand thieves, they de-
serve hanging more than highwaymen, for they pick the pockets of
the whole nation.

There are five great rarities hard to find, a black swan, a phoenix,
a unicorn, the philosopher's stone, and a maid at sixteen.

If extortioners cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, where must
usurers, tallymen and pawnbrokers go to ?

Soldiers and butchers are very near relations; for they both live
by killing and slaying.

I never see a tailor but he puts me in mind of a cabbage, or a
miller, or a weaver, but I think on a thief.

Good old women, and good small beer, are hard to be found,
yet these are good in their kind.

What is the difference between ale-dealers and linen-drapers ?
Only this, one cheats you with froth, and the other with cloth.

Number me the sands on the sea shore, and the stars in the sky,
and I will number you the faults of a lewd woman. Yet a virtuous
woman is the pride of nature, and the glory of the universe—but
where shall I find her ?

To portion daughters, and to build ships, are chargeable things,
yet, after all costs and pains, they prove leaky vessels.

Had I three sons, if one of them was a dunce, two should prac-
tise law and physic, and the other should be a minister.

There are five things wonderfully swift — Fame, which, like a
snow-ball, gathers as it goes—a musket shot, that kills before you
hear the report—the sight, which reaches the heavens in an instant
—thought, that traverses the globe in a moment—lightning, that
kills the child in the womb and hurts not the mother, and melts
gold in a bag without scorching the canvas.

Some say that Britain is the garden of the world, but, as Buona-
parte said, " There is many a bitter weed in it." Others say, " It
is the paradise for women—a purgatory for servants—and a hell
for horses." We have the handsomest women in the world, I must
own, and we give them the greatest privileges—the honour of the
wall, the third of our effects, and the like of that, yet they seldom
repay us with any thing but a large pair of horns; and, like the
devil, the more you humour them, the worse they are; give them
an inch, and they will take an ell.

But there is no general rule without exception, what I speak is
the bad humours of men—one story is good till another is told—
in the mean time give me leave to speak my thoughts. Those that
are good husbands make good wives ; and if they are bad, there
are six of one and half a dozen of the other. God help us all.

And thus I have finished what I first proposed,

And if I have more or less of truth disclosed

Than what you like, excuse me for this time,

As need makes old wives trot, and poets rhyme;

Therefore extend your halfpence, if you please,                                    

And I'll pray for you all my remaining days.

EDINBURGH:—Reprinted by Menzies, Lawnmarket.

Important Strike

OF THE

Maid servants of Edinburgh

We understand that it is contemplated by
" The Maid-Servant Union Society" of this
city, to make a 'strike' at the ensuing term,
with a view of obtaining higher wages; and
really after perusing the resolutions of that
"respectable feminine institution, as unani-
mously agreed to at a general meeting held
yesterday evening, Mrs Slops in the chair,
we hesitate not to confess that they have
strong grounds for standing out. They are
as follows:—

1 —As labour if voluntary, wages should
be liberal.

2—As maids are generally delicate, both
in regard to constitution and feelings, lenity,
sympathy, and kindly feelings onght to be
exercised towards them.

3.—That, of late years, the perquisites
which custom and long usage had converted
into " vestry rights," have been decreasing,
and, in many cases, withdrawn.

4—That Sundays being days of rest, these
days are to be entirely at the disposal of the
maid-servants,—and no questions asked.

5.—That mistress's old clothes have ever
been, and must continue to be the property
of maid-servants : and that when a gown or
any other piece of dress has been worn a
sufficient time, it must be considered as
old clothes.

6.—That in case of any difference of opin-
ion between the mistress and the maid about
the condemnation of the dress, the servant's
of the house, and those of the two adjoining
houses, to be appointed judges.

7.—The hare and rabbit skins, kitchenfee
fat, and dripping, shall continue to be con
sidered the property of the cook; and no
skinned hare or rabbit to enter the house.

8.—That no young women under sixteen
shall be allowed to take service, and that no
wages shall be under L 2, 10s. the half-year,
and I..1, 1s for tea-money; those taking
less to be considered knob stick, and treated
accordingly.

9.—That after the 14th of May, the wages
should and must be advanced 25 per cent;
that is, those who engaged at L.4 must now
insist on L.5, and all others proportionally.
Tea-money to remain as at present; but
should any change be deemed necessary, by
a rise in the price of that commodity, owing
to the existing quarrel with the Chinese, due
notice of it will be given.

10.—That, in the event of mistresses re-
fusing to comply with this small advance,
the  maids are to strike work, and refuse to
serve those who will not go into these re-
solutions.

11.—That each maid-servant shall be sup-
plied by the Union with a copy of the above
Resolutions, to be hung up in the kitchen
Along with the Police Regulations, so that
All concerned may see them.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.MISSING

FROM THE

Neighbourhood of High Street,
About the 33rd of Next Month,

A TALL=COMPLEXIONED

Young Man
Five Feet Six Inches of Age, and
Height 27 Years.

He had on when last seen a pair of swallow-tailed trousers, with
sausage stripes; fashionable mutton cutlet waistcoat, with cast-iron
trimmings; a double-barrelled frock-coat, with tripe collar and tobacco
linings; watertight canvas boots, with patent paper edges, without the
nap; a pair of green and white stockings, with potato heels and sides;
a necktie, rather broad of belief, tied round the forehead; his shirt is of
cabbage cloth and buttons up behind his belly; his gloves were of cast-
steel iron, with air-holes at the end; he is deaf and dumb of one eye,
and hard of hearing with the other; is slightly pock-marked at the
back of the head, stoops upright when he walks crooked, has a slight
impediment in his look, wears a Grecian bend on lower top lip, whiskers
cut off short inside; was carrying an empty carpet box in each hand
and a wooden bag in the other, containing screw steamers, railway
tunnels, and blacking; was born after his younger brother, his mother
being absent on the occasion.

BY TELEGRAM.—Was supposed to be seen going
up the Grass Mountains near the Mouth of Vesuvius
with the Falls of Niagara under his arm.

Any one giving such information as will leave him
where he is will be persecuted as the law directs.

BY ORDER.

L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.                 T H E   

LAMENTATION

Of the Butchers Wives in Musleburgh
for weighting of the Flesh. 

Some Boutcher's Wives got a fine Soup.
    Wi turning of the Chapen Stoup.
Clashing wi Drunken Bessie  Shaw,
The,souest Coarse among thnm a,
Began to rail against the Law,
For Weighting Flesh and highting Ale,
And Greeting told their dreary Tale.
Quoth Peching, pulfer'd Jean M'Millan,
We Flesher Wives may all cry Killing.
This Day I've gain'd but ae poor Shilling,
And that e'n slipped or'e my Throat,
For Ale's sae Dear, a Quarts a Groat.
Before my Poutch was never Bare,
For well could Flesh a Chopen spare,
But since it was weighted, just wi Grief,
My Body's lost three Stane of Bieff;
And our good Man, that drnnken Weight
Came reeling Hame; the other Night,
And swore since Flesh was sold by Weight,
That with his meikie Rung he'd sell me,
And openly in Mercat sell me,
Quoth Bessie, since you Weight the Meat,
It's very easy for to Cheat.
Gi order when the Beasts are flain,
That Blood among the Beff remain,
And ne,re head the Bayers Curse,
lt's ay well done that fills the Purse,
Soncy says Kett well may you be,
Ye've ay a good Advice to gi.
Ye are a dainty drunken Wife,
And e'n as sharp's the killing Knife,
Indeed your Counsels very good,
Ye ken ther's nane but Jews hates Blood,
Ye heard this Day the Jute Wife tel'd
When twenty penny Ale was  sel'd.
She faud a Way to cure the Matter,
And ckt it up wi' Caller Water,
Alace says Nansy at Brig-end:
We us'd to make a bony Fend.
And ay had Siller for to Spend,

We keept a Babie off each Groat.

In Fidlar Don's to wash our Throats;

And our good Men was a deceived,

And never kent what we received,

But  Since the Law to weight the Meat

The noar a Bole can we Cheat,                   

Twill even draw in our Apron Strings.

And make us sell our bra Gold Rings.

In Sundays Cloaths nane were so rise,

And Mensesu as the Fleshers Wise.

We scarce sit three Year at the Stand,

But we were ready to buy Land.

Out of an single Ox, I ve made

Since first I kend the Flesher Trade,

A Peck of Pearlings and a Plaid.

Neither the Baikers nor the Brewars,

Had such a lown Trafique as ours.

But now they Tope, and were turn'd low,

And waes my Heart it should be so:

The Brewer makes the Tapster willing

To height each nine an other Shilling,

It's very far from being discreet,

And Bakers pays small Rates for Wheat

Whilst the poor Boutchers sighs and groans

To give allowances for Bones.

And sell the best Gear on the Ground,

For poor three half Pennies the Pound.

Really as the Proverb says,

Ther's unco Chainge 'twixt Mercat Days.

He that contriv'd this Law's been Glutton

That lov'd to swallow Beef or Mutton,

I wish the Flesher Tikes fall on him,

And I my self shall help to Stone him,

FINIS.The last Will and Testament

OF

Evan Morgan, to his Cousin Thom

Andrew.

I Evan Morgan, being very sick, and
Weak,   but in  perfect Health, do

    make this my last will & Testament,
and do bequeath my Estate in man-
ner and Form   following.

To my dear and near Relations, which
is to say first and formest. to my Cousin
Thom. Andrew, who I love most detelt-
ably,I give and bequeath all my Houshold
Goods in general.

Imprimis,      Twelve Dozen   of Horn
Spoons,all Silver,

Six pair of Holland Sheets, made of the
best Canvas.

Eight Silver Pewther Dishes

One Linsey-Wolsey Warming-Pan,

Two He-goats big with Kid.

Two Woollen Eel-skins.    

Twenty four Egg shells;

One Tiffany Looking-Glass.

Twelve Tin Wooden Platters.

A Box Horn Comb

One Wooden Pen-knife.

One Cork Razour.

One deep Blue. Orange Jerkin.

One Glass pair of Shoos.

One Iron Hazel Cane.

One Pair of Brass Curtains and Vallens

One Deal Feather-Bed.
  Two Oaken  Flock Beds.
One Earthen Chamber-pot,of fine Pewther
One Sarge suit made of good BroadCloath.

One Iron Pair of Gloves,made of Sheep.

skin .

One Wooden Hat.

One Linen   Bed-stead.

One Glass Clock,

Two Pair of Wooden Scizzars, and one
Chaffin-dish made of Ice.

All which I desire he may qnietly enjoy
without Conteruption,as being near related
to me, his Father being my Aunt, whose
Mother was Christened in a Hat, and
whose infamous Vertues were spread
through all the Welch Mountains.

Secondly,I give and bequeath unto my
Cousin Tom. All evry part and par-
cel of the things belonging to me in my
 Barns and Stables: As 'I en Sheep, neither
Ews, Rams, nor Wedders

Two Female Coach Horses.

One Bull with Calf.

Two Sky-coulour'd Saddle-naggs,

Four Oxen never gelded-

One Handful and a haf of Chaff,

Twelve Pease Straws,
Two Peascod-shells,
One Bull-Cow-Calf,
Four Sucking Piggs, three   quarters
old, besides all my Poultry.
 Two Ducks, which are all Geese.
Four Capons, right Cocks of the Game
One Owl, which is near Kin to me.
Three Pea-hens, of the Partidge Kind-
and a Brood of Pheasant, that are all
Woodcocks,

Also, In all my Woods and Meadows,
to my said Cousin Andrew, I give and be-
queath all the Strawberries and Black-
berries that he or his can gather between
Christmas and Fasternes-even, with all
the Hay they can make in the whole
Month of December; and all the young
Birds they find in their Nests from the
first of January to Candlemas-day,

I likewise do give and bequeath to my
Cousin Andrew, the two Mole-skins, that
hang upon my Crab Tree in St. Tafy's
Closs, with all the Crabs that he can find
under the said Tree.

I hereby also give unto him, all the
Hog's Dung in my Sty, desiring him to
make choise of it, since it lyes not in the
Power of the best Welch Man in Wales,.to
make one Mouthful of it.

Thus having settled my Goods and E-
state, I am somewhat quiet in my Mind
and am free, when I can live no, longer,
to depart this Life, and go from hence to
wait upon the good Welch King Cadwal-
leder if her can but find her out

Let not this my last Will and Testa-
ment be any ways hindered or obstructed
least my troubled Spirit should. come and
remove all the Welch Mountains, and
carry them into the Vallies of Piedmont
beyond the Sea,which will prove no small
Damage to my Native Country ; But if
this my Will and Testimony be strictly
observ'd and kept, you shall have not
only the Prayers, but the Blessings of your
dear Cousin.

EVAN MORGAN.

Sealed and Delivered in the Pre-
sence  of twenty Goates, now feed-
ing   on the pleasant   Mountains
in our Welch Territories.NEW INVENTED

Act of Parliament,

FOR  THE BENEFIT OF

YOUNG MEN, OLD MEN,  MAIDS,

WIVES, WIDOWS,

OLD MAIDS, BACHELORS, &c,

At a Meeting of several Ladies and Gentlemen of this
Town, held for the better Management and conduct-
ing Order and Regularity in Society, Mr STEADY in
the Chair, the following Resolutions were passed;-

RESOLVED, 1st.-That no lady shall wear a bonnet
more than one yard ronnd ; and no more than two to be
allowed to walk arm in arm together, so that they may
not obstruct tae way, (to prevent persons being turned
off the pavement by the said bonnets) under the penaly
of five pounds.

2-That any lady not paying the above penalty when
called upon, or should any gentleman be blown into the
gutter by the wind of her bonnet, she shall be sent to
the tread-mill for three months, and to fan the mill
round with bonnets.

3.-That no ware-house clerk, counter hopper, chim-
ney sweep, journeyman, apprentice, or dandy, shall
shall smoke a cigar in the street before six o'clock in the
morning, or after ten in the evening : for every such of-
fence, to grind logwood on the tread-mill for three months.

4-That every working man shall 'be at liberty to
smoke on his way home, after work in the  evening, pro-
viding he puffs no one's eyes out.

5.-That no old maid wife, or widow woman, shall
take more than a pound of snuff in one week, and not
to take more than one pinch during hours of cooking, for
fear of dropping it from their nose into the gravey, under
the penalty of not having another pinch for one month.

6.-That any man shall be at liberty to beat his wife,
provided she deserves it, with any weapon not smaller
than a broom-stick, not softer than a kitchen poker, pro-
vided he does not commit murder, but break as many
bones as he pleases. Any woman not likeing this treat-
ment, shal be at liberty to leave her husband, by articles
of agreement, drawn up and signed in the presence of the
next door neighbour, she taking the children and goods;
and further, that she also take with her two black eyes,
if her husband thinks her deserving of the same.

7.-That any washer-woman, or any woman going out
to daily work, shall keep one-half of her earnings, and
the other half shall be given to her lord and master, for
drinking money.

8-That any man coming home drung, shall be care-
fully put to bed by his wife, she being at liberty to pick
his pocket, and have a gill of whisky for her trouble.

9 That a man and his wife must not get drunk at one
time, for fear of fire, as two drunken people in one house
is contrary to the act.

l0.-That every bachelor, at the age of forty, be com-
pelled to keep two wives, to make up for lost time: In
neglecting so to do, he shall pay a fine of five pounds,
to the poorest couple in the parish.

11 .-That no old maid be permitted to keep more than
one dozen of lap-dogs, cats, or parrots, to the annoyance
of the neighbourhood, but to use every lawful means in
her power to procure a husband; but if she can prove to
the satisfaction of the Court, that she has already done
so without success, then the Court shall be bound to
provide her a sleeping partner during the cold nights of
winter.

12.-That no married woman shall lie snoring lu her
bed after seven o'clock in the morning, with the fire ont,
and the breakfast not ready, under the penalty of being
tied to her bed for a fortnight.

13-Any man marrying a woman, and not being able
to accomplish the duties of matrimony, the wife shall be
empowered to employ a journeyman; the husband pre-
suming to grumble, shall be dipped three times a-day in
a horse pond, till his wife prove in the family way.

SANDERSON, Printer. High Street Edinburgh.IV.

W. R.

The New intended Act of

Parliament,

For the Benefit of Young Men, Old Men, Wives, Old Maids,
Batchelors, Widows, &c.

AT a Meeting of several Ladies and Gentlemen of this Town, held for the
better management and conducting of order and regularity of Society,
Mr Steady in the chair, the following Resolutions were passed :—

Resolved, 1st. That no Lady shall wear a bonnet more than one yard long ;
and no more than two to be allowed to walk arm and arm together, so that they
may net obstruct the way, and to prevent persons being fanned off the pavement
by the said bonnets, under a penalty of five pounds.

2d. That any Lady not paying the above penalty, when called on, or should
any Gentleman be blown into the gutter by the wind of her bonnet, she shall
be sent to the Treadmill for three kalender months, and to fan the mill round
with bonnets.

3d. That no Warehouse Clerk, Counter-hopper, Chimney-sweeper, Journey-
man, Apprentice, or Dandy, shall smoke a cigar in the street before six o'clock
in the morning, or after ten in the evening; for every such offence to grind
logwood with their teeth for three months.

4th. That every working man shall be at liberty to smoke on his way home
in the evening, provided he puffs no one's eyes out.

5th. That no Old Maid, Wife, or Married woman, shall take more than one
pound of snuff in a week, and not take more than one pinch during hours of
cooking, for fear of dropping it from their nose into the gravy, under the penalty
of not having another pinch for one month.

6th. That any man shall be at liberty to beat his wife, provided she deserves
it, with any weapon not heavier than a broomstick, nor softer than a kitchen,
clout, so as he does not commit murder, but break as many tea-pots and butter-
plates as he pleases. Any woman not liking such treatment, shall be at liberty
to leave her husband, by articles of agreement drawn up and signed in the pre-
sence of their next door neighbour, she taking the children and he the goods ;
and farther, that she shall also take with her a tea-pot and some tea utensils, as
her husband thinks meet and proper.

7th. That any Washer-woman, or any woman going out to daily work, shall
be allowed to keep one half of her earnings, and the other half shall be given to
her lord and master for drinking money.

8th. That any man coming home drunk, shall be carefully put to bed by his
wife, she being at liberty to piek his pockets, to prevent him from drinking the
next day, and have a gill of whisky for her trouble.

9th. That a man and his wife must not get drunk at one time, for fear of fire ;
two drunken people in one house is contrary to the act.

10th. That every bachelor, at the age of forty, be compelled to keep two
wives, to make up for lost time ; in neglecting so to do, he shall pay a fine of
five pounds....to go to the poorest couple in the parish in which he lives.

11th. That no old maid be permitted to keep a lap-dog, parrot, or cat, but to
marry a smart young man to keep her back warm on a cold winter's, night.

12th. That no married woman be allowed to lie snoring and sleeping after
eight o'clock in the morning, with the fire out and the breakfast not ready,
under the penalty of being tied to her bed for a fortnight.

13th. That no woman shall hiddenly feed herself and starve her husband,
under the penalty of being fed on bark brose.

14th, That no woman be allowed to rob her husband, either in shop or
house, for the purpose of buying Leghorn bonnets, silk |gowns, flannel petti-
coats, and silk stockings, while their husbands are kept like beggars, under the
penalty of being clad with hand-me-downs.

15th. That no man or woman be allowed to smoke above five times a day,
under a penalty of being put up the vent and smoked with brimstone.

Conform to the laws and daily practice of Scotland, used and observed in the
like cases, in all points, as is alleged.....OUR WILL IS HEREFORE, &c.

PRICE ONE PENNY.For the BENEFIT of Mr. MUNRO  senior,
(Master of all the MUSIC in Scotland.)

At Major WEIR's House, near the Head of the West-Bow, (commodiously
fitted for that Purpose.)

On   WEDNESDAY the 1st  of APRIL  next,  will be A

		SPIRITUAL CONCERT
		         CALLED

Harmony Revers'd ; or, The World turn'd upside down.

Act 1st, A Piece of MUSIC   called the R E E L   OF   BOGIE.
	To be perform'd by the following Masters

First Fiddle    )  by    ( Signior Thrumstring     | Bass    )      by   ( Monsieur No-tune
Second Fiddle)         ( Signior No-time           |Hautboy)             ( Vander Long-Blow

The First Repeiano by Signior Macdougalion Musician at London.
And a SONG  by  Signiora SHRIL-PIPE called the IRISH   HOUL,

In the 2d Act,   a Grand Piece of MUSICK (accompanied with Kettle-Drums
and Fire-Crackers)   call d   the   BOB  of  DUMBLAIN.

Likewise Signior CAMERON I will perform a SOLO on the VIOLIN
called the REEL  of  TULLOCH

In Act 3d, A curious Piece  of  MUSICK   called POLITE  TASTE,
To be perform'd by Nine CATS, all from Turkey.

Signior  FARQUARSINI  will perform a Solo on the Left-handed Hautboy
called The BABES   in   the  WOOD.

To make the Night's Diversion quite compleat, There will be added a grand
Interlude called
Judgment Banished ;   or,   Nonsense  in  Fashion.

Lately composed by Signior DONDERHEADO

Looked upon by the Curious to be the Grandest Performance ever yet exhibited.
In which Signior Donderheado will stand upon his Head, and play a Voluntary
with his Feet on a New invented Organ.

Monsieur FLANDERRAGO   BARBARBANDO SO will Stand the
Picket on the Point of a Sharp Sword ( bare-footed ) and perform a solo on a
Violin with Ten Strings.

And Madam GRAMMANDONI   CONCOBINO  will swing by one Heel
with her Head downwards, and perform a Sonato on the Bag-pipe.

All the above DIVERTIMENTI will be perform'd Gratis.
The House will be illuminated with Black Wax Candles.

All Creil-Wives, Paunch-Wives, Cale-Wives, Cadies, &c &c. that will condescend
to honour the Performance with their Presence, will please call for Tickets at a-
ny of the following Places, viz. at Chimney. Sweepers Hall, East End of the Guard,
at the Old House of Correction, Bottom of Leith-wynd; at the Finisher's of the
Law, Bottom of the Fish-market Close ; or at the Buckle-mender's Stall, North-
side of the Cross.

N. B. 1. The whole to be conducted by Mr. MVNRO.-----Care will be ta-
ken to keep the House warm.-----The Doors will opened at Four, and to be-
gin precisely at Six o' Clock.

2. Tickets for any publick Diversion, except Plays, will be admitted.

3. Monsieur LEATHER-WHING Flying-Master ( lately from India)
keeps his School next Door to the Weather-cock, just above the Tron Steeple.COPY OF A VERY

CURIOUS LETTER 

From the Bell of the High Kirk of Paisley, to its Friend the Cross
Steeple of Glasgow, giving an account of  her being struck with
the Dumb Palsy, and the curious remedy which the Bell-doctors
took to restore her to health and sound.

Paisley,  12th October, 1821.

Maister Prenter,

WHA wad e're thocht to hae seen me writing
in the public prents, I'm sure that the like o't
seldom happens. But come and  I'll tell ye
wha first put the thing into my noddle. It was
just the last Saturday night that as I was luck-
en o'er the public  prents, what do ye think I
saw? I'm sure ye'll no guess, for I was muckle
surprised to see't mysel-It was a letter frae
 my frien in Glasgow, " The Cross Steeple,"
maken' an unco complaint o' ingratitude an'
neglect trae them it had served sae lang.

I hae seen the day, Mr. Prenter, that I wad
nae hae needit to trouble yaw to tell my story;
na, na, for heth its weel aneugh kent that whan
I  wus in my health I  could speak braw an' loud,
and could gar folk hear me far an' near; but
as I am sair alter'd, I think I mun be excus'd
for following the plan of my frien, and I dare
say ye'll think sae too when ye hear how ill I've
been used.

I'm an auld servant o' the public, and ne'er
kent what it was to spare my strength in wurk-
ing my wark; na, na, that was ne'er a trick o'
mine, for by night or by day I was aye ettling
to please folk, and tho' I say it mysell, that
may be shauld na doe't, I hae been aye true to
my trust, and until I took my present trouble,
it was ayont the power o' the Diel himsell to
find fault with me, and it's weel kent that he's
nae frien to our kind o' folk. Mony a winter's
blast I hae seen, and some taks't upon them to
say that I may see mony mae if I'm wee doc-
tor'd; but they'll no gar me believe that, for my
trouble is owr serious, and I'm sair, sair  touted.
They dinna ken my distress, or they wud na
speak that way. My head is a' wrang, and my
tongue has worn a hole thro' my cheek, an' its
a great stress for me to speak ayont my breath,
an' O but I'm sair tired o' my birth; no to say
that I'm unwillen to serve my auld maister, but
really I canna work my wark toony gude pur-
pose; an' Oh I canna thole to get sae mony re-
flections, when I weel ken it's no my faut.

They brought a doctor to see me, but it wasna
a doctor o' physic, fur ye ken sic folks can do
nae gude to a patient wha has neither blude
nor  anes. But it was a doctor o' bells, an'
when he saw my sad condition, he thocht it ad-
viseable as weel as pruden to ca' in fur advice
anither emanent docter  o' soun's; an' after the
twa a had cansultet th' gither they at last pro-
nounced my trouble to be " the Dum' Palsy,"
Dum' enough faith, thinks I, an' as other doc-
ters seldom meets an' consults, without doing
something mair to their patient, sae an' opera-
tion was purposed to me, an' 'twel awat muckle
I suffered during their experiments.They
drew a saw draught frae my lip to the hole i'
my cheek; but this did nae gude, an' indeed I
never expeckit it, fur I cou'd na see how it was
possible, fur it the soun' whisled thro' my cheek;
before I didna ken, how making the crack big-
ger wi' a saw wad gart keep in the won better.
Now that am as ill as ever, an' i' my present
state a disgrace to the place I till, what for no
let me retire frae my birth in peace, as they
doe a' other worn-out public servants. I'm suir
I'll no seek ony pension na, na, I'm nane o' the
greedy set; but it's only for the honor o' the
place that I fill, that gars me seek my discharge
	
Now, Maister Prenter, as I ken that a heap
o' folk read your papers, if you prent my state-
ment, it might come un'er their observation,
an' wha kens but they may tak pity and grant
my request. In which case you wud ne'er be
forgotten by

Maister Prenter,

Your obedient Servant.

THE PAISLEY HIGH KIRK
STEEPLE BELL.   

Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.Downfall of
Harvie's Dyke.

An account of that most important and find decision regard-
ing the notorious Dyke on the Banks of  the Clyde, which
was finally decided by the Lord Chancellor in the House of
Lords, on Tuesday last.-Glasgow, 10th July, 1828.

HARVIE Of WEST-THORN v. RODGERS AND OTHERS.

This appeal came on in the House of Lords on Tuesday the 29th April, before
the Lord Chancellor and other Peers. Sir J. Moncrieff opened the case, which oc-
cupied all that day. On Wednesday Sir James Moncrieff resumed his speech on be-
half of the appellant, Mr.Harvie. Mr. Brongham followed on the same side.
Their arguments were chiefly on the point of the Judge in the Jury Court not
having laid sufficient weight on the evidence of interruptions to the public. They
contended that although an uninterrupted possession of he foot path for 40 years
had been proved, it was not proved as applicable to the 40 years preceding the date
of the issue, but only  for 27 years, or at most for 32.

Mr. M . G. Adam addressed  the House for the respondents, and contended  that
uninterrupted possession for forty years had been distinctly  proved,and  that the
charge of the Judge had  been perfectly correct,    The Jury had been directed to
decide from the whole of the evidence , and he could not allow that there was any
ground for a bill of exceptions.

After Mr. Adam had finished his speech, the Lord Chancellor said he could not
proceed with the case before next Tuesday (May 6).

        TUESDAY, MAY 6.

The above case again came on in the House of Peers this day. Mr. Kaye was
fully heard for the respondents, and Sir J. Moncrieff for Mr. Harvie, in a speech
of about two hours, which concluded the pleadings.

The Lord Chancellor then intimated that in consequence of the extreme import-
ance of the case, he would defer giving judgment. The pleadings were principally
upon the point of prescription, and of course nowise interesting except to gentle-
men of the legal profession.                                          

	TUESDAY, JULY 8.

The Lord Chancellor gave judgment in the above most important case, this day.
His Lordship after an eloquent speech, in which he went over the principal points
of the case, moved that the judgment of the Court of Session be affirmed, which
was done accordingly, with I ,.100 costs. Thus the citizens of Glasgow have been
triumphant, and the dyke must shortly come down.

HUZZA!-HUZZA!!-HUZZA!!!                     

The Liberty of the Banks of the Clyde for ever !

John Muir, printer, Princes Street.