A CURIOUS AND DIVERTING 
DIALOGUE,

That took place betwixt two Irishmen in the Cowgate, last night, about the Dinner to be given to EARL GREY on Monday first.

Teague. — Good morra, Pat, what sort of a harvest have you had?

Pat. — Troth, very poorly, Teague, shure an’ sartain I’m most as badly aff as when I left beyont, an’ shure you know yourself times is but so so this while back, any how its rather betther than murtherin’ ourselves for aitpence a day, as we had to do beyont, an’, God knows it’s not much that’s made aff the hank o’ yarn.

Teague. — Well, upon my shoul, they all think that Irishmen knows nothin’, and that there’s no mechanicks wid us at all at all, but they’re wrong for once; for tho’ I say’t that should n’t say’t, I’m as good a mechanick as any in the town o’ Aidinborro, for by the great toe of the holy St. Patrick, I can mix morthar, carry a hod, dig turf, or wheel bricks wid ever a boy in the town.

Pat. — You may spake about mechanicks or what you like, but I can tell you that the people of Aidinborro has a great respect for me, an’ they all knew when I was comin’ to the town, bekase the children always keeps running after me, calling, ‘When did you come over Pat?’ — And, Teague, about your cleverness, I’ll put you before ever a one in the whole town, and if it was goin’ to that, you can box a little too, bekase I mind the right good basting you gave your father, about a mile from Tandaragee.

Teague. — You may say that wid your own ugly mug, I didn’t miss him that day an’ hit the wall: but, Pat, did you hear any thing of that great parade an’ faist that’s going to take place in Aidinborro some of these days for Aril Grey an’ the rest of the boys?

Pat. — Troth, I just heard a whispering about it a bit ago; it’s but right they should give Aril Grey a dinner, when he past their Reform Bill. I believe Aril Grey’s the next man in Parliament to O’Connell. Isn’t O’Connell to be the head man at the dinner?

Teague. — Faith in shoul! I don’t think O’Connell’s to be there at all, at all.

Pat. — Isn’t he, by my shoul? Man dear, shure they couldn’t do without him. Shure wasn’t him, and nobody else, that passed the dirty bastard of a Reform Bill, an’ not Aril Grey?

Teague. — I don’t know how it is, but I’m sartain O’Connell’s not to be there, good or bad.

Pat. — Don’t make a gommagh o’ yourself, shure he must be there to spake. Bad luck to them, they’ve no right to any dinner at all. It would fit them better they would give us something to carry us over the dubb, than give it to Aril Grey.

Teague. — You’re parfectly right: they ought just to strip them mother naked, an’ sen’ them home without a stitch o’ clo’es, skulking all the way wid their hands in their trousers pockets. I don’t see any right they’ve to give Aril Grey any thing — shure he’ll never be a man lek O’Connell. 

Pat. — Lek O’Connell!  By the kneed breeches o’ the holy St Patrick, never while there’s a hole in his a—e. Bad luck to Aril Grey, say I, and all the Greys about them, to say that he couldn’t do a bit jab, such as passing the ‘Reform Bill,’ without comin down all the way from London to get his bags stuffed for it. Devil drive it thro’ him like dogs hunting sheep, but he has a purty stomach.

Teague. — That’s it, Pat, you can’t say too much agin the dirty bast.  By the god o’ war, (an’ that’s Moses) he wouldn’t take the Tythe aff o’ ould Ireland for fear he wouldn’t get his rotten bags filled well enough. But wait a minit — if O’Connell doesn’t put his toe in Aril Grey’s f—t-hole, when he meets him in Parlament, it’ll be quare to me.

Pat. — May the curse o’ the Pope, the Cardinals, the Bishops and the Priests, (not forgetting O’Connell) be upon him, the ugly tief. He’ll be comin over to ould Ireland in a day or two, but in God spare me, I’ll be there before him; an’ the w—e’s pup, I’ll throw a somerset thro’ his ribs, an’ make a thoroughfare for O’Connell an’ the Irish Parlament. Bad luck to him, he ought to get his a—e kicked with every tenth foot.

[Printed for John Neil.Edinburgh Irish Festival:

OR, THE

POPISH SHOWMAN.

An Account of the Procession, and Progress of
Dan, King of the Beggars, in Edinburgh.



DANIEL the First, King of the Beggars, and by a strange and wonderful anomaly,
Premier of Great Britain and Ireland, made his entree to the capital of Caledonia on the
17th current, about noon. At an early hour in the morning it was easy to be perceived,
from the unusal bustle among the Emeralders, and the distant yells of the bag pipes and
drums mustering the devotees, that the advent of the Big-Beggar man was at hand. The
denizens of that ancient liberty, the Cowgate, quickly responded to the reveille—many a
hod got a day's rest, and many a donkey brayed in honour of the great O'CONNELL for
the holiday, for the boys were determined that neither pigs nor potatoes would bother
them on that blessed morning—they therefore fell in, and proceeded to join their bre-
thren, the children of holy St. Mary's, where they received their colours, and arranged
the order of march, previous to which, Father Keening, of the Ripale Chapel, blessed
the " army," absolved it from all mortal sin, and gave it the honourable title of the Royal
O'Connell Body Guards, or St. Mary's Rangers. Thereafter the united forces marched
in firm battalion, upwards of 300 strong, (hear it, Joe Hume—every one of them sworn
and incorporated Ribbonmen) up the High-Street to the tune of tunes, St Patrick's Day.
The "brigade," every mother's son of them, were decorated with the usual emblems of
rebellion, green sashes and tri-coloured knots on their breasts, and sported about four or
five banners and standards, on one of which was the good looking countenance of the
great Liberator himself. Thus constituted, the Body Guards joined a tumultuous assem-
blage on the Mound, nicknamed the " Trades," (for the great majority of the respectable
artisans refused to grace or aid the O'Connell rising) consisted of a few starved brick-
layers connected with the " strike," cobblers, sweeps, tailors, tinkers, ropemakers, Re-
form Unions, and other idle blackguards the greater part of whom were raw boys, in all
about 250.

The whole force then broke up for Newington, to join the rest of the cortege appoint-
ed to conduct Ireland's Jewel into Protestant Edina.   For the satisfaction of our general
readers, we give the order of procession as it moved into the City of John Knox :—

Drum and Fife of the Old Town Guard,
A strong body of Police,
Chimney Sweeps, two and two, with new brooms, supporting an effigy of Lord Brougham
with clean hands.
Grave-diggers, with a congratulatory address for O'Connell's encouragement of
their trade in Ireland.
Colliers, with a petition, praying that his Danship may  direct coals to be used instead of
fagots, in lighting up the fires of Smithfield, when autos-da-fe for the

            Protestants are again commenced.
Gilmerton Carters, with an offer to volunteer to Ireland to assist the Whitefeet during
               the ensuing winter.
The Society of Sturdy Beggars, carrying a beautiful portrait of King Dan, their
acknowledged Sovereign.
The Edinburgh Jews, with an offer to contribute a twelvemonth's Christian plunder on
the next Day of Atonement, for the emancipation of " our peoplesh ; ''—twenty
per shent dishcount for ready monish.

The Gentlemen connected with the Liberal Press of Edinburgh, with a memorial as to the
proper application of the Secret-Service Money—with the Editor of the Scratchman
in sackcloth and ashes, eating the Fast-day number of his filthy  journal.
Band of Bagpipes, playing the Dead March in Saul.

THE BURGHER SYNOD,
with Potter-row John at their head, supported by the Rev. Messrs Nicebit and Whalley,
habited as Dominican Friars, with their Geneva bands reversed and pinned on their 
hinder parts, carrying the Death's-head and Cross-bones, for the edification of
the Irish Protestants and the terror of Scotch Anythingarians.

Barney  O'Whack, doorkeeper to the Convent of St Margaret's—originally intended for
the Church, and found wanting, but thought fit enough for the Convent—a servant
of all work, with his truncheon of office in his hand.

THE MOTHER  ABBESS,

and 20 Sisters of Charity, leading in their right hands 20 young girls, pupils of the Estab-
lishment, converted to Popery.
Mrs Laidlaw, and the Society  of Midwives,with an Address on the prospect of the in-
creasing Papist population.

PRIOR GULL-US OF ACHEUL,
as Ignatius Loyola, in his robes of office.

THE RACK WHEEL,
supported by four familiars of the Inquisition lately  escaped from Spain. Bailie M 'Wheeble
and Small-talk Jemmy-son dressed as imps and tormentors.

TWELVE PRIESTS.
two and two, supporting a box containing thumb-screws and " dens theology. "

FATHER M'HALE.
carrying a Bull from the Pope excommunicating the Brothers Finn, for exposing and
insulting the Liberathor.
Brass band—tune, " Erin go brach,"

THREE COMPANIES OF THE ROYAL O'CONNELL GUARDS,
commanded by the celebrated Major Lackey of Ballinahinch.
Tinkers, Tailors, Ropemakers, Cobblers, as aforementioned.

EDINBURGH WHIG CLIQUE,

incog., and in the disguise of gentlemen, closed the procession. Sir James had given the
strictest orders that they should not countenance the Festival in their proper character,
lest they might hurt its respectability.

In the above order the Procession moved along the Bridges till it reached the Water-
loo, where the Great Dan alighted, and received the respective addresses and congratula-
tions abovementioned. The Sisters of Charity then proceeded to exercise that hospitable
token of affection and love, the washing his Sub-holiness' feet in holy water, and which
were then dried by the perfumed handkerchiefs of the pious Sisterhood, the mother abbess
devoutly crossing herself as she passed her hand up and down Dan's brawny leg. The
moved to the hustings on the Calton hill, which were occupied by the ordinary apostles of
froth and sedition. The Beggar man then lifted his voice aloud—cursed the House of
Lords—denounced the Tories—praised Scotland, and declared the Calton mountain finer
than the Hill of Howth ; in which he was joined by Maurish, who declared that he would
rather be obliged to fight D'Israelli than have lost the sight.

A shower of rain at length dispersed the greater part of the crowd, which, owing to the
day, was at first numerous. There was no feeling manifested but that of curiosity and
contempt. It was hardly possible for his partizans to muster a faint cheer, while the
assemblage remained profoundly silent. None cried, " God save him !" and after the
usual balderdash, the Meeting broke up, and the boys went to dress for dinner.

" O' Connell ! the foul calumniator of the best and bravest of the land, the most impu-
dent of mountebanks, the most restless of agitators, the most beggarly of beggars, the
most worthless of slanderers, the bitter enemy of the peace and welfare of his country. "

They who praise him are like unto him, and honour, virtue, and decency they know not.
Reprinted from the AGe, for James Bonnar & Co.THE

Monkey Barber.



AN ACCOUNT OF THE

Wonderful Monkey

OF GLASGOW,

Who turned Barber, to Shave the Irish Farmers who
came over to reap the Harvest, with a description of
the Ludicrous Catastrophe attending his first experi-
ment in that profession.

THIS Monkey being alone in a barber's shop, when in came a
broad-shouldered, well-trimmed, lusty Hibernian, who ,sat
himself down in a chair, and put his oaken cudgel under his thigh,
and said to the Monkey, " Ould gentleman, I want to be shaved."
The Monkey, willing to try his skill in the art of shaving, took the
basin and brush, and performed  the operation of lathering with
great dexterity, but did not prove so skilful in using the razor : he
drew blood at the first stroke—the second and third took some pieces
out of his chin and part of his nose, to make it more level,  which
so roused the blood of our Hibernian hero, that he jumped on his
feet and cried out, " You bandy-legged, pistol-shinned shamrock !
long-tailed, beatle-browed, pig-faced, long-nosed rascal! da you cut
people's faces off here ?    Arrah ! man, I will dash the guts out of
your skull in one moment!"    The barber's  son, hearing a noise in
the shop, came down stairs, and asked what was the matter ?" It is
not matter at all, at all, it is all blood ; your ould rascal of a father is
not fit to scrape a dead horse, or scrape a pig ; do vou see he has cut
my nose and half my face off ?"    " Sir, you must be mistaken, my
father has been dead forty thousand years — but who has bled you ?"
" Why, the rascal has gone up the chimney with the smoke !" " Then
I suppose it is the monkey that has done this bad trick."    " I
do not care whether he be a monk, priest, friar or a General Monk,
I swear by the oath of Moses, by the rocks of Ballyshannon, by the
mountains of Morne, if ever I catch him, dead or alive, I  will dash
the guts out of his skull, if I am hanged up for it next moment!''
" Sir, you seem to be a highblooded gentleman and may be descended
from some noble family." " And sure, and so I  am, for I am of the
blood  of the great O'Branaghans, and the  O'Callaghans, likewise
the family of the Fitzpatricks." "Then, sir, Fitzpatrick is your name."
" My name is Patrick Fitzpatrick, from Down Patrick, born at the
sign of St Patrick, in Patrick's lane, on St Patrick's Day in the morn-
ing, as good a shentleman as ever left the sod."

In the meantime, in came a recruiting serjeant, and said, " How
do you, countryman ? " " Indeed, and in troth, if you did but
know my sad condition, you would pity my case, to see the scoun-
drel of a barber who has cut my nose and my face off" " I see
you are badly treated, but come along with me, and I will give you
a glass of good Irish whisky, and dress your wounds." " Good luck
to you ! I will freely spend a five-penny bit with you, if you can
tell me about my brother, Dennis O'Callaghan that went to the
wars with our dear countryman, the Duke of Wellington, and
knocked the brains out of forty thousand Frenchmen, in one day !
The Duke, hearing of his birth and parentage, gave him a great
post in the army ; made him a general, or an admiral, or a corpo-
ral, or a scoundral, or some great post with a ral in it."

The barber's son got rid of his funny customer, the monkey
came down the chimney, stifled with smoke, and never shaved an-
other Irish Farmer since.

Edinburgh ;... Price One Penny,

