A True COPY of the Paper delivered to the Sheriff, by Captain  JOHN
BRUCE, who was Execute at Lancaster the 2d of October, 1716.             

FRIENDS and BRETHREN,

I Am brought to this Place to discharge the Debt I owe to Nature, and do chearfully
resign to the Blessed Will of Almighty GOD; whose Mercies I adore, in that He
has afforded me His Grace and Means sincerely to Repent me of my past Sins, and
such Time to prepare for that blessed and glorious Change, which I hope to meet with
in a few Minutes.

I'm not ashamed for that Gause for which I die ; but rejoice that I am worthy to be
a Sacrifice, in the Vindication of the undoubted Right of my Lawful and Natural Liege
Lord King James the Third, and the Expiring Liberties of my dear Country.

I always believed the Hereditary Right of Succession to the Imperial Crowns of these
Realms, to be a Fundamental and Unalterable Part of the Constitution; and could never
think that any Difference in Religion, or any of the pretended Laws which never yet
received the Regal Assent of any Lawful King, could aniwise disengage me, or any ho-
nest Man, from that Duty and Allegiance which is due to our lawful Sovereign King
James the Third, whose Title, by Birthright, is clear and unquestionable : And was
therefore engaged, by the strictest Obligations of true Honour, Religion and Law, to
join with his Majesty's Loyal Subjects, in the Just Endeavours to Restore him to his Rights,
and break thro' the Usurpation and Fence of Rebellion, which hath so long kept him
from them. GOD, in His Mercy, forgive these Kingdoms, incline the Hearts of the
People, as one Man, to bring in their Lawful King ; and free themselves from the merci-
less Tyranny they now groan under.

I'm now grown in Years, and not much short of what the Royal Psalmist calls the Age
of Man; and have known many Struggles, in order to preserve the Constitution, and
sinking Liberty of the People, and several Turns and Changes that have ensued: In all
which, praised be GOD, I preserved my Integrity, by a strict Adherence to my King
and Country; opposing as far as in me lay, the Innovations that were daily introduced to
the Injury of the one, and enslaving of the other.

As one Wickedness is, the Parent of another, so the Revolution begat the Union, and
from these Sources flow the Whalers of Bitterness, which the Good People of these Na-
tions so plentifully drink of at this Time. May GOD, of His infinite Mercy, work
their speedy Deliverance, and restore them to their ancient happy Constitution and Go-
vernment.

As for my Religion, I was bred up a Protestant according to the Doctrine and Dis-
cipline of the Church of England, wherein I have ever liv'd, and in which, by GOD'S
Grace and Mercy, I shall die. It taught me to give both GOD and my King Their
Due, to deal justly with all Men, forgive mine Enemies, and expect Salvation thro' Jesus
Christ. Her Doctrine and Government I embrace, and pray GOD to restore her to
her former Purity, Peace and Prosperity.

I beseech all whom I have anywise offended to forgive me, as I, from the Bottom of
my Heart, do all who have anywise injured me, and particularly those who were con-
cerned in my Prosecution, or anywise Instrumental in promoting my Death. I forgive
that greatest of Injuries, their surprising me into a Confession of their Indictment, by
bringing me to a Trial Two Days before the Time mentioned in their Notice, and with-
out ever giving me any Copy of their Jury; being a Scotsman, and a Stranger to the
Laws of England, I was the more liable to be imposed upon : GOD forgive them,
as I freely do.

I think it incumbent on me to take this last Opportunity, of vindicating my Honour
from that Report which traduced me as unfaithful to his Grace the Duke of Hamilton,
whilst I had the Honour, which was about 24 Years, to be with him as a Companion and
humble Servant: And here by declare, upon the Words of a Dying Man, and as I shall
answer it before Almighty GOD, That what hath been said to asperse me upon that
Account, was intirely False; and any Displeasure his Grace conceived against me con-
cerning it, intirely Groundless. I always loved him, and dealt faithfully by that Noble
Duke, as GOD, the Righteous Judge, will witness for me.

Thus have I discharged my Conscience, and now, blessed be Almighty GOD, that
hath brought me to this happy Period of my Pilgrimage. I have finished a long
Course, and adhered, without Wavering, to my King, the LORD's Anointed, his
Cause ; for, and in which I die: And I hope this Day to be with my Saviour, tran-
slated thither, to rejoice with other Loyal Sufferers, and all the Saints and Angels, for
Evermore.

LANCASTER,                                Sie Subscribitur,   JOHN BRUCE.

October 2. 1716.THE
LAST   W OR D S

               OF

JOHN KNOX,

Who was Shot in the North-Inch of PERTH the 24th of AUGUST    
1716, about 7 in the Morning.

MY Friends and Country-men, being in a Few Minutes to appear be-
fore GOD's Tribunal to give Account of the Deeds done in the
Body ; and apprehending that those who are to oversee the Execution of the
Sentence against me, will not allow me to speak my Mind freely, I leave this
Paper to be published after my Death : And in Case it be kept up or de-
stroyed, I  have left another Copy with a Gentle-woman in Town, who, I'm
confident, will cause publish it, since it is the Desire of a Dying Man.

With Shame and Sorrow, I acknowledge that I am a great Sinner,
and that I have offended GOD in Thought, Word and Deed; yet I Trust
there is Mercy for me, as for all other Penitents, thro' the Merits and Medi-
ation of my blessed Saviour. I heartily forgive all my Enemies, as I desire
Forgiveance at the Hand of GOD.  Tho' the LORD's Prayer is, by many,
much neglected, and the Use of it in a great Measure abolished, I cannot but
highly esteem it. As to that Part of it which concerns the pardoning of Injuries
done to me, I will say it with my Last Breath, and I thank GOD that I can,
with all the Sincerity of the World say, That from the Bottom of my
Heart I freely forgive all Men as I desire to be forgiven of GOD.

I bless GOD I suffer for well doing, for asserting  the Right of my only,
Rightful Soveraign K. JAMES the VIII. and endeavouring to relieve my
miserably oppressed Native Country. My Prosecutors tell me, It is  for my
Desertion of the Camp at Stirling, and they alledge, tho' they have not made,
it appear, that I joined the Kings Army, whom they call Rebels ; and that
I was with the Duke of MAR in Perth all Winter. My wretched
Prison-keeper who is turned so violent on the Usurping-lay, says, He has it
from those be calls honest Men : But from him, and all such as he is, good
LORD deliver all good Christians.

Now, to satisfy my Prosecutors and others, I acknowledge I served under
the D. of Brunswick for sometime, but with the greatest Reluctancy ; and
 when Conscience could no longer endure the Violence done to it,I joined the
King's Army that went to Preston, where the King's Interest was ruined,
and many a brave Man was betrayed out of Life and Fortune; for I think my
self bound to tell them, that I reckon there was Treachery as well as Cowar-
dice in some who had the chief Command there. I heartily wish all of them
may Repent and Amend. It has been said, that some of those who carried
on the Union got the Repentance of Judas ; but I heartily Pray that all who
are hired  to Support the D. of Brunswick on the Throne, denying and re-
jecting their true Master and Sovereign may get Peter's Repentance, who de-
nyed his.     For I am fully persuaded that till our Natural and Rightful So-
vereign is in the settled and peaceable Possession of his just Right, and the
Principles of Whiggery, which destroy all Order and Government, are extirpa-
ted ; Peace will never flourish in Britain which I pray GOD may forward.

I am the second Sacrifice in this Place for King JAMES the VIII. I Pray
GOD I may be the last, and that of His Infinite Mercy He may put a Stop to
the Bloodshed and Murder of these Times.

Since it is GOD's Will that I am deprived of my Life, I hope to glorify
GOD by my Death, which I shall suffer chearfully, since roved away in the
23d Year of my Age for my King and Country.

I pray GOD may preserve the King, and that He may always Bless him,and

    all the Endeavours and Enterprises for his Restauration;That God may encrease
the Number of his true Subjects, and convert all the Enemies of our King
and Country.    Being now to recommend my Self to GOD by Prayer, I
bid you all Adieu.                    sic Subscribitur,         JOHN   KNOX.