THE GILMERTON MURDERERS



Here you have the Melancholy and Penitent  Address to the Public,
by David Dobie and John Thomson, dated from their Cells in the
Calton  Jail, where they are now awaiting the execution of their sen-
tence on Wednesday morning next;—and also, an affecting Letter
written by David Dobie to his Wife.



Melancholy Address of Dobie and Thomson, with Dobie's Letter

to his Wife.

The following is the copy of a letter, wrote by David Dobie to his
wife, and to the Father of the unfortunate woman whom they mur-
dered:—

" Dear Wife—I write these lines to you, hoping you may receive
some consolation from them. This is the only comfort that I can be-
stow, to let you know the state of my mind ; although my guilt does
stare me in the face, I trust God will be merciful to me a humble peni-
tent ; although my hands are stained with the blood of the innocent,
I trust the blood of Christ will wash me from all my guilt.

" I am quite resigned to my fate ; I forgive all mine enemies, and 
I trust they will also forgive me ; I die in peace with all men. You
will not have the melancholy satisfaction of laying my body in the
dust; but I beg as a last request that you do not grieve on that ac-
count, as these dry bones may yet live to future glory, where man
cannot scatter. Shew this letter to the aged father of Margaret Pa-
terson, whose hoary head we have brought with sorrow to the grave.
We sincerely implore his forgivenness, which is a poor consolation
for the loss of a daughter he held so dear, which, by our wicked hearts
has left him to bewail the loss of a child, and you a faithless hus-
band.

" Give my last respects to all my friends and comrades, and to the
grace of God I leave them and you for ever.—Farewell."

" Edinburgh Jail, 28th July.

" With sorrow we announce to the Public and our comrades who
know us,—though the enormity of our crimes is already known in
part, which were of the rudest and deepest dye—with regret we may
state that our brutal crime was one in which there was neither manli-
hood nor shame, for the unfortunate female came with us for protec-
tion, but like Judas we betrayed trust, and imbrued our hands in the
blood of the innocent, which is now required at our hands, and a guilty
conscience stares us in the face. Such are the horrors we endure with-
in this gloomy solitary cell. Solitary indeed is our dwelling; by our
guilty deeds we are hid from the face of man ; no more the blessed
sun may cheer us with his light ; our end is decreed, in judgment for
our own wicked lust and wicked hands. We sinned in secret, but the
voice of our sister's blood cried from the ground that we should be
punished openly. Disgraceful indeed were our doings, and an out-
rage to all proper feelings in society. But alas ! remorse comes too
late ; our sandglass is turned; and the numbered hours of our life are
swiftly running; every throbbing pulse announces their fleetness, and
our beating hearts our guilt. No more shall we behold the beams of
the morning, nor feel the evening dew fall upon us; we water our
couch with tears. Fettered with chains of iron, but alas, loaded still
heavier with the chains of sin, that sink to perdition, we must suffer an 
ignominious death, and be publicly anatomised ; to the shame and dis-
tress of our agonised parents, whom we should have held dear to us,
and been the means of supporting in their declining years, The sen-
tence of an earthly judge we fear not, he can only kill the body; but
there is another trial before us, by that infinite Judge that will give to
every man according to his works, and hath said, ' Cursed is every
man that hangeth on a tree.' But yet our hope is in a merciful God,
and should this come into the hands of any individual, who like us is
plunged in vice of the most horrid and abandoned nature, shunning
all the paths of virtue, and lost to every thing that is becoming and
laudable in this world, think, O think in time.

"When   we  recal  to mind  the  many  idle spent Sabbaths-the
Church we often neglected, and passed it by as if it were a ruinous
heap, and making scoff of such as attended it while we went into the
public house, and were there wallowing in all the abominations the
human mind can picture—we now, like Dive,   ' Lift  up our eyes and
see Lazarus afar off in the bosom of Abraham comforted,  while  we
are tormented,'    But we thank  God we are not yet in  hell,  which we
have so often escaped ;  a guilty  conscience and death, with all its
ghastly terrors staring us in the face, is but a faint picture of the hor-
rible thoughts that distract our minds regarding our future fate, when
our guilt confronts us in all its direful forms.    Were we to breathe
our last on a death-bed, surrounded by those who were dear to us, and
our hands unstained with blood, it would be nothing in comparison to
going to the scaffold with such a load of crime upon our heads, and
dying by the hands of the executioner.     Oh that it were in our power
to  recal  that mis spent time  which we have squandered away in the
paths of vice.  Had we a thousand worlds, or all the filthy allurements
attendant upon them, it would make no compensation for our guilt
and waste of time which cannot be recalled into eternity.     We sin-
cerely trust that this our dying advice will have a lasting effect upon
our comrades, and  those who are running headlong in the ways of sin,
making the Sabbath a pastime and a day of unhallowed pleasure, and
beholding the Bible as a looking glass ; for which, you may depend,
it not repented of, an account will be required here after,"

Forbes and  Owen, Printers, 118, High Street.The last Speech and Confession of
Jannet Riddle, who was Execute, for
Murthering her own Child, in the
Grass Market of Edinburgh, January
21st. 1702.      

OH! Oh! did ever any hear,
of such an one as I;
The Laws cannot be too Severe;
for it's Reason that I Die,              
The Cru'lest Death that e're was known,
because I did deny,         
Even Life to it: when all alon,         
which 'twixt my Sides did lye.
Was not I then Un-natural,
mine own Child for to Kill.
For which I am ordan'd, Sirs, all
your Eyes by Death to fill.
When I and it then parted were,
it did begin to Cry,      
But I soon stop its Mouth so fair,
which twixt my Sides did lye.
Yea was it not great Cruelty,
that enter'd in my mind,
To dispair of GOD's great Mercy,
who Releis soon did find,
To me, who of Relief was fain,
before my Delivry,
Yet to my Child I wrought great pain,
which' twixt my Sides did lye.
Which when Born, I did Repair,
for to commit the deed,
Not of GOD's Mercy taking care,
I caus'd my Child to Bleed,
The Div'l helpt me to go on,
and paved out the way,
How I should make my Child begon,
which 'twixt my Sides long lye,
The Worlds shame me did entice,
because I thought it great,
This Bloody act to enterprice,
for which here ends my Fate.
And having thought for to promot;
its death without delay,         
I with great speed 'bout threw it's Throat,
which 'twixt my Sides long lye,
This being done, with little Grace,
where I might lay the Child,
I did Contrive for it a place,
which when alive was Mild;
Mong-Feathers then the Bab I laid,
with silence great I say,
And being Dead, it Bleeding Stay'd,
which 'twixt my Sides long lye.
The Bloody Fact this being done,
I thought my self secure.
Yet GOO most High, it did think on,
He such would not endure,
But soon caus'd some as Witness stand,
that they did hear it Cry,
And that I kill'd it with my hand,
which 'twixt my Sides did lye.
I then with Boldness did soon Swear
of such me to be free,
Because I said none 'mong them there;
with Child did e're me see.
But when they also found the Child,
I likewise did deny,
That I then it my self had kill'd,
which 'twixt my Sides did lye.    
Saying it was by me dead Born,
and I had laid it there,
Least any Person should me Scorn,
and Church be too severe.
They not believing, I Confest,
at length, I was Guilty,
And that its life I there out prest,
which 'twixt my Sides did lye,
Oh! Sad and Grivous Crueltie,
is it not for to hear,
Children Murthet'd even Mothers by.
Oh! Sad for I may fear,
Eternal Misery and Woe,
may be my chance I say,
Because I wrought it's overthrow,
which 'twixt my Sides long lye.
Yet though my Sins are many LORD,
thy mercy's great are more,
The Blessing give me of thy Word.
good LORD I thee Implore.     
Farewel O People, be you fil'd
with Joy, for I do Die,          
For Murtheting of my only Child;
which' twixt my Sides did  lye.

FINIS.

A copy of a very affecting and interesting letter,
written by William Perrie, before his execution,
on Wednesday, and which was found in the
Condemned Cell, after his Execution, addressed
to Mr Masson, one of the elders who attended
him when in Jail.-Copied from the Glasgow
Chronicle of October 23. 1837.

My Dear Friend,-Your kind attention, your friendly visits, and
labours of love towards me, when a prisoner in the tolbooth of Pais-
ley, both before and after sentence of death up to the moment in
which I pressed your hand for the last time on earth, were felt by
me with that gratitude which is best acknowledged by the silent
glows and emotions of the heart, and gives more satisfaction than
any language I could adopt under such painful circumstances as I
was placed in, and though the memorial must, with other records,
perish amidst the wreck of years,yet surely it is registered on High
an Everlasting Record in the Sky. -To- Masson, elder, by his
loving but unfortunate friend, William Perrie.

The parting of Perrie with his children, on the night before his
execution, was hea t rending in the extreme. He cried like an in-
fant, and embraced them so eagerly as almost to hurt their tender
names, and implored upon them the blessing of God, exhorting
them at the same time to follow undeviatingly the paths of religion
and virtue. It appears that he, if not jealous of his first wife, at
least watched her so closely in company, as to make himself quite
ridiculous.

Ancient Gold Coins found in  the  Cathedral  of Glasgow.- On
Thursday last, three of the workmen, two masons and a labourer,
employed in renovating the interior of our venernble Cathedral,
found 160 ancient gold coins under the pavement, about five inches
from the base of one of the pillars which the wall lately taken down
intersrcted, and which divided the Outer  High Church from the
Nave.-These workmen kept the secret of their good luck from their
fellows who were employed near them, and sold the gold to a jew.
eller for L.84 18s.    The thing however spunked out, and Captain
Miller ultimately managed to get possesslon of the pieces mention-
ed above, along with the unlucky  finders and   L.71 of the money
they had received for their prize.- The pieces are very thin, and
appeared just to have been slipped in at a wide joint of the pave-
ment, as they all  fell down  when  the stone was removed.    The
whole of the coins are in a state of most perfect preservation, and
consist of 62 Nobles of one of the early Edwards of England, about
the size of half-a-crown, on one side of which there is a ship, with
a figure on deck bearing a sword in the one hand and a shield in the
other: and round the rim " Edward Dei Gra Rex." is entire.    The
reverse side has a large cross in the centre, and it is  surrounded al-
ternately by crowns and the fleur-de-lis.    This coin is of most beau-
tiful workmanship.    The other coins are smaller, about the size of a
shilling, and amount in number to 58.    On one side there is the fi-
gure of St. Andrew on the cross; on the other a lion, surmounted
by a crown, and " Robertus del Gracia Rex Scotorum," perfectly
legible.    The whole are now in the hands of Captain Miller, and a
full examination of the parties concerned has been taken, in order to
be transmitted to the proper authorities.    In the meantime an offi-
cer of Police has been stationed in the church, in order to secure
for her majesty's use whatever may again turn up in the gold way.
- An ingenious  Correspondet, who writes us on the above matter,
states, that supposing these coins to have been lent out at five per
cent. compound interest, five hundred and  thirty-seven years ago,
about the period they may have lain buried, the following would be
the pretty little sum to which it would have now amounted, viz :
Thirty five billions, one hundred and forty-seven thousand one hun-
dred and sixty-four millions, nine hundred and eighteen thousand,
six hundred and fifty pounds,-or 43 934 times  the amount of the
national debt!-Herald.

" Yesterday (Wednesday) the persons who discovered the aeins
were taken into custody and underwent an examination, in the
course of which the whole circumstances attending their discovery
and subsequent sale were brought out. We believe there is no in-
tention to punish the poor fellows, but they have been called upon
to refund the whole of the money which they raised. The coins
will of course be retained as treasure trove on the part of the Crown.
They ought to be distributed to different public museums,with a note
of the exact situation and circumstances under which they have been
found,-Argus.

                                                                Muir, Printer.The Genuine last Speeches and dying words of  THOMAS SMITH and GEORGE STEPHENSON. 
Who were Executed at the West End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 21st of January, 1807, for the Crime of
Horse Stealing; contained in Two Letters from them to their Wives, writtten by their own hands. 

Letter from Thomas Smith to his Wife.
Dear and loving Wife, Edinburgh, Jan. 1st, 1807.

THESE are my last dying words and wishes to you, which
I hope you will attend to, and doing so, you will find
for your good after I am gone from this world. I hope and
trust in God, however, that I shall be for ever happy in ever-
lasting glory, through the blood of our dear Saviour, sweet
Jesus Christ, who died for poor sinners ; where also I hope
and trust to meet you and my dear Babes; and to 'have you
delivered into my arms by our Lord, -I have asked the Mi-
nister, whether, if we both went to glory and happiness, (I
mean you, my dear Wife, whom I love as dearly as my own
precious life,) we should know each other in that glorious
place or not ? He says there is no doubt but we shall, or else
how came the rich man to know the beggar who was in
Abraham's bosom ? So dear loving Wife, let you marry who
you will for your next husband, I hope and trust, let your
days and years be ever so long, or ever so short, that you will
pray to God, and that your prayers may be, that he will de-
liver you to me in everlasting happiness and glory, where I
hope and trust in God, you and I shall meet. This is my
prayer night and day, my dear sweet Wife , and I hope it
will be your's.

Had the Cord been pleased to have restored me again to
you, my dear Wife we should have been the happiest couple
that ever lived in the world ; and still I hope you will be
happy in this troublesome world, if you take my advice and
I make no doubt but you will do so, as you are sure in your
own mind that I should be very sorry to advise you to do any
 thing for your hurt. So pray do not forget what I now say
to you.            

Dear Wife, Do not merely read this and throw it in the
fire, but save it and read it at different time, for this is my
desire, and I hope you will attend to it. Dear Wife, It is
my desire from my heart, that you will not part with my
Watch nor any of the seals, but keep them for my sake, till
my own son, William Humerston Smith, is old enough to
take care of it; and I hope and trust, you will give it to him ;
and tell him, it was his own dear Father's watch, and that it
was my desire he should have it ; and that he should keep it
for my sake -Dear Wife, Let you marry who you will, pray
make this agreement with them, that they are never to wear
that watch, but that you are to keep it yourself, till my son
can take care of it. If you make this agreement before you
marry; it will occasion no difference between you afterwards.

Dear Wife. I think your best way to act after my death,
will be to go home, and sell off all you have, but your bed
and bed clothes, and take these by the waggon, or by water,
which ever you may think best, and go to the town where
-------------------- lives,   and   where every one will  caress
you, and lament for you, and be glad to see you ; and they
will help you into some way of doing that will be better for
you than staying at----------banks, to spend all you have, or
to marry a poor Pitman, or any other drunken men ; for that
would be still but ending your days in far worse unhappiness
than any thing you could do besides. You are worthy of
yourself of a gentleman, or a good tradesman, who can main-
tain you as you ought to be. Never let it come into your
mind, that any person of good sense will despise you, or think
you unworthy of being a Wife, if you behave yourself, as I
hope, you will do. Now my dear Wife, believe this to be a
truth, and that it is for your good both in this world and with
a view to the next, that you let no man living overcome you
by promises, nor by oaths, or ever such fair speeches. For
depend upon it, a man that makes such oaths and promises,
he only wants to satisfy his own lust; and any man that wish-
es to make a woman his whore I am sure he has no regard
for her.

And now I pray God  to bless you and to direct you in your duty;
for I shall not be able to give you many more advice. Pray take my
advice ; And for God's sake take care what you do. Believe me, my
dear, and speakimg in my last moments in the presence of him who
knows my heart, that I love you beyond expression. God have mercy
on you and my dear babes. Had I been but restored to you again, I
never should have thought I could have done enough for you to have
made you sufficiently happy.

"Give my love to WILL and his wife, at J-----------------, I mean
if you ever see them. As long as I have life and sense in me, I will
pray to God that we may meet again at the last day of judgment. I
hope to be in glory when my breath departs. God bless you. and may
he be with you forever and ever. Amen.

My last request is, that you see me buried before you leave me.
From your own dear husband's dying hand, THOMAS SMITH.


Letter from George Stephenson to his Wife.
My Dear Wife  Edinburgh, January, 2d 1807.

MY God has granted me grace to write these few lines
to you ; and I hope you and my Dear Little Child
are well.-My dear Wife, I hope you will forgive me for
the ill using of you, as I have my dear Wife. I send you these
few lines to let you know, that I am dead ; And I hope you
will always take care of my Dear Little Angel.

My dear Wife,-My distress calls me to think of parting
with you.-The will of the Lord be done.-I thank you for
your tender care of me : may the Lord bless and reward you
for it, and sanctify your own tenderness, and support you un-
der it, As you have studied to live a life of faith and prayer
all your days, so I hope and believe you will continue to the
end. In all your difficulties and fears. O encourage yourself
in the Lord your God ; commit your ways to him ; trust him
that is faithful and true.-I resign you, my dear, to the Hus-
band of Husbands, our dearest Lord Jesus Christ.- My
Children,. Your earthly father must leave you ; but he leaves
you to the care of your Heavenly Father, who is immortal.
O cleave fast to him ! Trifle not about your souls concerns in
time of health ! Mind these things as the one thing needful
This you will not repent of, when you come within a near
view of death, and endless eternity, O press for clear views
of your interest in Christ, the only surety and Saviour of sin-
ners. Among other evidences of it, live by faith on him,
and study holiness in heart and life.

Dear children,-Think how you will be able to stand before
Christ, your Judge, at the Last Day, unless you have Christ's
image on you, and be made new creatures. Lord make you
all such, and bless you with his best blessing -My blessing be
upon you all.-What means God gave me, I have beslowed on
you, or lest them to you. Be kind and careful of your .Mo.
ther, while you have her; and let none of you forget, that
though I go before you to the dust, you must all quickly follow
me. O that we may all meet together, at the right hand of
our blessed Redeemer, to see his face, and praise him forever.
The time is near; be ye therefore also ready.

Now, my dear Witsand Children,— Remember what it a-
bove, as the words of your affectionate Hasband and Loving
Father,'who, being dead, yot herebyspeaketh td.you for your
eternal good and happiness. May they sink deep into your
hearts ; so prayeth your loving Husband.

My dear Wife,—I have been long afflicted since I left you;
and 1 hope the Lord has taken me to everlasting rest and hap-
piness —And I hope the Lord will bless and protecl you all,
and forever be your guide.

So no more from your loving Husband.
This is my own hand-writing before my death.

GEORGE STEPHENSON.

Thomas Smith, aged 39 years, has left a wiseand five child-
ren, three by a former marriage, and two by his wife to whom
the above letter is addresied. Besides the above he has wrote
several letters to his children and other friends. They all con-
tain earnest expostulations with them to do their utmost take
to his widow, and to behave themselves properly, and to take
warning by his unsortunate situition, has also untimely end.

George Stephenson, aged 32 yea»s, has also left a wife and
children. His wife knew nothing of his being in prison, nor
would she hear of his situation till some days after his death, ar
she lived' in the neighbourhood of London : and no word was
to be sent her till after his death.

They behaved with great propriety on the scaffold. After the
clergymen who attended them in prison had left them to their own
meditations, they engaged in prayer with vast servour and devotion,
after the manner of the Church of England. They continued some
minutes previous to their going on the drop in vast agitation.
When they went on the drop, and had the satal rope about their
neck, they still continued making use of the prayer-book, till the
Executioner gave them intimation that their time was gone; the
prayer-book was immediately dropped, and they launched into
eternity ; where from every appearance or evidence that could be
given, they are now happy.

The crime for which they were condemned they fully acknow-
ledged.

Agreeable to the practice of the Church of England, the religi-
ous cermony of that church was gone about over the corps previ-
ous to their being buried.
At their own desire, lime was put into their coffins, to prevent
their being of use for dissection.

Augus, Printer.


SPEECH-CRYING.-One of the most intolerable nuisances
which the citizens of Edinburgh are made to endure, is the in-
cessant bawling of speech-criers who infest the streets, and 
swindle the lower orders out of their pence, by vending the
most abominable fabrications of robberies and murders. The
whole of yesterday, scores of these sturdy vagabonds were busi-
ly employed in hawking "an account of a horrid and barbarous 
murder, between Glasgow and Lanark," which happened some
20 or 30 years ago, making it appear as if it had been perpetra-
ten within the last few days. Has the police no control over
such miscreants ? Is the publisher not amenable to justice ?





THE  LAST  SPEECH,






Confession and dying words of the Lives of John Smith, and George
Stevenson, who were Executed, at the West End of the Tolbooth
of Edinburgh, this day the 21th of January, 1807. For the
Crime of Horse Stealing.

I JOHN SMITH, aged 50 years, was born of Respectable and
honest parents, in England, who gave me an education suitable to
their station, and the mode of my country. My youth was rather
sober than otherwise. At an early period of life, I took the sacrament
in the English manner, with the erroneous idea that it would take away all sin, therefore, I then plunged into all manner of vice. The
sabbath was then profaned, and every crime almost within my reach
committed. In this manner my life was spent, until I was led to com-
mit the crime for which I now suffer. I bless God that I now see my
sins in all their horrid guilt, and place all my hope in the blood of
Christ. I am not afraid of death, but concerned for my soul. I re-
turn my thanks to those ministers and Christians, from whose instruc-
tions and prayers I have received such benefit. I commend my wife
and family to the mercy and keeping of the Father of the fatherless ;
and entreat her to bring them up in the fear of the Lord, that so we
may all meet in heaven. Amen.

I GEORGE STEVENSON aged 30 years, was born in Eng-
land and received an education rather limited. No great regard was
paid to instil into my mind the principles of morality and honesty, and
thus having no strong principle within I easily fell a prey to seduction
without. I admit the justice of the sentence for which I suffer. I
am now ready to bless God, who has given me a sight of my sins, and
who I trust has pardoned and redeemed me through the blood and me-
rits of the Lord Jesus. I heartily join with my fellow sufferer in my
thanks, to those Ministers and Christians who have attended us, and
with HIM in the most humble posture and with the most contrite heart
entreat for pardon of God for Christ sake Amen.

N.    B.    The Public, will soon be in Possession of their Dying   say-
ings, from the most Authentic' source,The Last Speech,

Confession and Dying Words, of ROBERT STEWART,
late BOOKBINDER in Edinburgh, who was Executed there
on Wednesday FEBRU. 22d, 1809, for the Crime of
House-breaking and Robbery.

I ROBERT STEWART, Bookbinder, aged 20
years, was born in the City of Edinburgh, of
honest, tho' poor, parents, my Father being but a
labouring man ; who was very industrious for the
support of his Family ; whose example and advice
had I followed, it would have prevented this my
unhappy and shameful end.

After my parents had given me what education
they were able, and brought me up to the years of
discretion, I was bound apprentice to the Bookbind-
ing business ; and after having served out my ap-
prenticeship, I wrought, for some years, as jour-
neyman. But my roving disposition, and the un-
principled companions with which I took up, led
me into some embarasments, which obliged me to 
engage as a substitute in the Edinburgh Militia; from
which I deserted three several times, and at last by
the assistance of my friends, procured my discharge.

After I left that service, I wrought at my busi-
ness for some time ; but falling in with loose and
abandoned companions, who led me into all man-
ner of debauchery and wickedness. I become care-
less about my business, frequented houses, of bad
fame, and took up with women of abandoned char-
acter : by which conduct I became icsensible to all
the good instructions and advices my parents and
friends gave me. I was much adicted to night-
walking, and gaming, which brought me to an in-
difference about every thing that was sacred, giving
myself up to sabbath breaking, and delighting in
roving and profane company. This course of life,
and thereby neglecting my business, brought me
into pinching circumstances, and led me to use un-
lawful ways to procure money for the support of my
extravagant course of life, until at last I fell into
that unfortunate-business, of contriving, with the
assistance of my brother, to break the Warehouse
of Mr, MOIR, in Skinner's Closs, for which I am
now most justly to suffer.

Soon after the robbery was committed, we were
apprehended and examined, and many of the arti-     
cles, of which we had disposed; were recovered and
brought to the Council-chamber, in evidence against
us. We at first denied the crime, but, by advice,
my brothers confessed the whole, and became evi-
dences against me for their own safety, for which
I sincerely forgive them, as I was the principle in-
stigator to committing the crime.

It was our misfortune on our trial to plead Not
Guilty, as otherwise we might have petitioned for,
and obtained banishment. But having had a fair
trial, and the crime clearly proven against me ; I
humbly submit to my awful sentence, and forgive
both Judge and Jury in the execution of their duty.

I return my sincere thanks to the Magistrates and
Ministers of the City, for their attention to my con-
venience and confort during my confinement. I
likewise must acknowledge the sympathy, and kind-
ness, of many private Christians who have visited
and comforted me since I received my sentence. I
also return thanks to the Jailor and under turn-keys
for their humanity and sympathy to me, while un-
der their care.

I am happy that my affectionate mother's eyes
are closed from seeing my miserable end; and I hope
that none will be so cruel as to cast up my untime-
ly fate to my surviving parent and relations ; but
rather endeavour to avoid the snares which have
proved my ruin.

And now, O young men, I entreat you to be at-
tentive to the good counsils of your parents, and at-
tend your lawful employments. Avoid night-wal-
king, gaming, drinking, and profane companions,
which has proved my ruin, and will inevitable prove
the same to all who go on in such kwiced courses.

I die in peace with all men, hoping that my mis-
erable end will be a warning to all other young per-
sons.

(Signed,)   ROBERT STEWARTThe last Speech confession and dying words of Colonel Despard and
his assocates.           


Were brought out upon the scaffold erected on the
top of the New Gaol, Horsemonger-lane, to un-
dergo the Senteuce of  the Law.

Colonel Despard came the last upon the scaffold
He made a speech to the surrounding spectators, in
which he declared his innocence of the Crime for
which he was condemned to die His Fellow sufferers
said nothing, and all behaved with great dcorum,
and resignation to their fate.

After the Colonel had. made his speech he was
greered  by  clapping and huzzaing,  otherwise the
Populace behaved with the greatest  propriety.

Nearly about nine o'clock  the Platform dropped.
After hanging about half an hour they  were cut
down, and decaditated.     The  whole of the  awful
ceremony was concluded by a quarter past ten,
Col. Despard was  the first who was beheaded.
The Soldiers were dressed in their Regimenatls
The vast assemblage of People who were collect-
ed upon the occasion, were apparently much affect-
ed at the scene   and quietly dispersed.

Two detachments of the Horse Gurds, and one 
of  the Scotch Grevs  were stationed in various parts
of  St  George's  Fields, and  about the Obelisk ; but
none  in  the  immediate vicinity of the Prison : as
no appearance of riot  was  visible, the Greys march-
ed back  before noon. The Reiatlves  to the unhappy
Sufferers at that time were waiting for there bodies

At Six o'clock on Sunday evening his Majesty's
Warrant to the  Execution  of Col.  Despard  and
six of his  associates, and also an order from Lord
Petnam, for the respite of the three others under
sentence of  death reached  the New Gaol in the
Borough As the Warrant  contained a remission of
part of  the Sentence of those executed this morning,
and may not be uninterest ng, we have here given
an extract from it :

"And whereas we have thought fit to remit part
of the Sentence, viz. he taking out and burning their
bowels before their faces and dividing the bodies of
Edward Marcus Despard John Wood, J. Francis
Thomas Broughton J Segwick, Wratten A. Graham
and J, Macnamara, by their being drawn and hang-
ed and having their head severed from their bodies
according to the said Sentence only at the usual
place of execution on Monday next the 2 st  Feb.;
and for so doing this shall be your Warrant. Given
at our Court at st Jane's the 16th day of February
1803 in the 43d year of our Reign. By Majestry's
Command.

(Signed)           " Pelham.

" To our Trusty and well beloved Sheriff of
The Court of Surrey, and others whom
it may concern."

Annexed is a Copy of the Order for the Respite'
" I am commanded to signify to you the King's
Pleasure, that the execution of the Sentence of 
Death passed upon Thomas Newman, Daniel Tyn-
dale and William Lander, now in the Gaol for the
County of surrey he respited until further significa-
tion of His Majestys Pleasure.
" I am sir, your most obedient  humble servant
signed           Pelham,
To our trusty, &c. &c'

A eight  o'clock yesterday morning Colonel
Despard and his fellow-prisoners were  sent  for by
Mr Ives to attend the Chapel. They all cheerfully
obeyed the summons except Col. Despard and Mac-
namara the former assigned no reason for his refusal
but the latter said he was a Roman Catholic, and it
would not be consistant with his faith.

The Rev. Mr Winckworth read prayers, after
which he delivered a very impressive sermon,extram-
ely applicable to the situation of  the prisoners. The
text was taken from the 18th chapter of st Luke
and the 13th verse, " God be merciful to me a
sinner. " The unhappy men joined in prayer with
great devotion ; and the impression made by the
sermon was Indicative of true fortitude, contrition
for their crimes and sincere repentence'

At  this time none of the Prisoners were apprised
of the warrant for their execution being received
It was thought best to reserve the unhappy tidingis
till their minds had been fortified by the Chaplains
discourse which had the distred effect ; for when
they heard the fatal information' they seemed all
thoroughly prepared to meet. it

Colonel Despard seemed more suprised than af-
fected. The wives of the Prisoners were premitted
to stay with them the greatest part of the day Not-
hing could be more distressing than their farewel
quitting the prison. Col. Despard shewed strong
emotions of grief on the melancholy occasion.

By day-light, yesterday, Mr Ives had a proper
number of persons employed on the top of the New
Gaol, to erect a platform, and as the morning ad-
vanced, the  neighbourhood of Horsemonger-lane
began to be crowded by the populace, to see the
scaffolding completed. Towards the middle of the
day the concourse was uncomonly great,

[Glasgow Printed by J. Galbraith                THE   LAST              

		SPEECH


Confession, and dying Words, of ANN MORISON, who was execute in
the Grass-Market of Edinburgh, on the 7th of March, 1759. for the
horrid Crime of murdering her own Child.

I ANN MORISON was born in the parish of Drumblate near to Les-
more, aged 26 Years, and from my Infancy brought up in the Town
of Strathbogie, during which Time I bore three unlawful Children,but they
all died while young ; my Parents were not in a Capacity to give Education
to me, and the Devil taking all Opportunities to deceive the Ignorant,
engaged me early into his Service, I acknowledge to my sorrow, I behav-
ed rudely to the several Masters I have served ; but since I came to this
lonesome prison, by the Blessing of God, and the Assistance of pious
Christians, I have obtained the Knowledge of reading the holy Scripture,
where I put my Confidence in a just God, who is good and gracious ; plen-
teous in Mercy, full of Compassion; not willing that any should perish,
but that the wicked should turn from his ways, and live.

I came to Edinburgh about three Years ago, where I served in credible
Families until this fatal Misfortune befel me: Remember not the Sins
of my Youth, O God, and let all mine Iniquities be blotted out of thy
Sight; wash me in the Blood of Sprinkling, that speaketh better Things
than that of Abel. Give thy Angels charge over me at the Hour of Death.
I acknowledge myself a great Sinner, and much given to that of Un-
cleanness, which has brought me to this shameful and untimely End.

I went to service in the Multrees  hill, in the first of June last, and
being with Child by a young Man, whose Name I forbear to mention ; I
took all possible Care to conceal it, but being come to my Time, and going
a little Way off from my Master's House I unexepectdly took traveling and
was there delivered without Assistance,nor did I call for any, altho' I knew
there was People within hearing of me. The Child being born, I laid it
among the Corn and returned to my Master's House, but soon after, the
truth was suspected, and upon Examination, I was found guilty, for
which I am to suffer this Day.

Wash my guilty Soul in the peace-speaking Blood of my Redeemer,
O God of my Salvation, and my Tongue shall sing aloud of thy Righteous-
ness.

O that this may be a Warning to all young Women, and others,
from trusting to the smooth and deluding Speeches of young Men. I
acknowledge the tender Regard of the Ministers of this City have
shewn   for promoting my eternal Welfare, and especially to Mr. Glen
and Mr. Dick, tor their pious Care about my Soul; the Lord grant them
Success in all their Ministrations.

All along free and ready Access has been granted to such as could
any ways further me in my spiritual Progress. I earnestly beg the Prayers
of all who are Witnesses  of my Death this Day, that God would have
Mercy on my Soul, and assist me in my Extremity, that after my De-
parture hence in Peace, I may meet, O Lord, with thy Favour, and be
received into thy everlasting Kingdom, through the Merits and Media-
tion of thine only Son, Jesus Christ, our blessed Lord and Saviour.

Labour early to have suitable Impressions of God upon your Spirits, and
right  Notions of his absolute Purity and spotless Holiness; be affraid
to sin against  him,for his all seeing Eye see all your Ways, and his al-
mighty Power can, and will reach you, if Mercy and unfeigned Repen-
tance prevent it not.

Labour to get right Views of Sin, and pray earnestly, frequently and 
fervently to God through Christ, That you may be made to see the ex-
ceeding sinfulness of Sin, how repugnant it is to the pure and holy Nature
of God, how contrary to his Law, which is a Transcript of his spotless
Nature; how wounding to our blessed Saviour, and grievous to the holy
Spirit, and how hurtful and dangerous to the best Interests of our im-
mortal Souls, therefore endeavour to study a holy Life, remember that
nothing is hid from the all-seeing Eye of God, therefore honour him,
and keep his holy Commandments. Lord Jesus receive my Spirit. Amen,

ANN  MORISON.The Last SPEECH, Confession, and dying declaration of WILLIAM SCOTT, who was Executed
at the Cross of Glasgow, on Wednesday, the 3d of December, 1788, for the crime of House-break-
ing and Theft.                        

I WILLIAM SCOTT, aged twenty years, born at Ha-
milton in the county of Lanark, of honest industrious
but poor parents, whose circumstences prevented them of
bestowing on   me education as   they would   inclined and
which was necessary for me.--I was at an early period
of my life put by my parents to the weaver trade, but alas!
an unsettled disposition which soon discovered it self in me,
together with my falling in with idle & desolate company,
who in a very early period of my life made a tool of me for
their base purposes, soon carried me off from following my
trade and from the parts of virtue, which I sadly repent
this day. Was I to enumerate the many scenes I have been
connected with, and accessary to, they would far execed
the bounds that is here intended, But as it is expected that
persons in my situation will before their departure from
earth say something of their past life and transactions. I
feel a pressing inclination to do so, tho' I declare no per-
son earthly has induced or pressed me to make a Speech,
and as I, in great sincerity of heart before God, deeply re-
gret my conduct in the by past part of my life, so I, in
making this declaration, do it with truth and candure, as
in the presence of that great God, who is truth itself, &
in whose presence I am soon to appear. It is unnecessary
for me to gall the ears of the godly and honest reader, or
to please the fancy of the vain scoffer, with a repetition of
all the crimes I have been guilty of, suffice it for me to say
something anent those I am condemned to die an ignomi-
nious death for, and some nearly connected with them.
The first part of my indictment charges me with breaking
into a house at Barrowfield, possessed by William Smart,
keeper of the Tontine in Glasgow, and stealing therefrom
a quantity of wearing apparel, the property of the said
William Smart, his wife, and some of their servants; now
the truth is this, I and Thomas Wothespoon, stocking-
maker late in Ardrie, thereafter in Gorbals of Glasgow, &
present prisoner in the tolbooth of Glasgow, did really
break into that house and we did steal the said articles, &
carry them to the said Thomas Wotherspoon's house in
Gorbals. Sometime thereafter, I was taken by the said
Thomas Wotherspoon from his house in Gorbals, to house
or warehouse of William Taylor, thread manufacturer in
Glasgow, where Wotherspoon said there was a good op-
portunity of getting some good yarn, and upon our arriv-
ing at the place, Thomas Wotherspoon entered the house
by a window and I stood on the outside, and he threw out
at the window a quantity of yarn, which he and I carried
to his house in Gorbals.-Bethia Kent, wife of the said
Thomas Wotherspoon was in practice of travelling about
the country and some of her children with her on the pre-
tence of begging, but the real fact is, was to bring notice
to her husband of any thing she saw to steal, and when she
came home she gave him notice of what she saw ; in prese-
cution of this way of life she had been at the house of Little
Govan, belonging to Mr Rae, where she had seen in a
house upon the left hand at entering in, within the gate
a quantity of Cheese and Butter, of this she informed her
husband, and upon the Saturday night mentioned in the
Indictment against me and my brother John Scott, the said
Thomas Wotherspoon and  I, and no person but ourselves,
set out from his house in Gorbals and went to Little Govan,
house, where we pressed up two or three spars of the rail
or pailing upon the top of the stone dyke before the house,
by which means we got into the court, and thereafter
broke or loosed out the window of the house where the
cheeses and butter were, and stole and carried off there-
from the whole cheeses and butter mentioned in the Indict-
ment, and hid them in a field of barley near Little Govan,
and some nights there after, the said Wotherspoon and I
carried them by degrees to his house in Gorbals, where
part of them, as well as part of the other articles above-
mentioned were found. Wotherspoon and I put the boat
in which part of the butter was, after taking the butter
out of it, into a concealed part of the fields, and we broke
the - in which another part of it was, and carried the
butter to Wotherspoon's house in pocks, and the crock in
which the butter appeared at my trial, was brought by
Wotherspoon's wife for the purpose of holding the latter,
the stone baton in which another part of it was, belonged
to her also, On another occasion, but before this fatal
one, Wotherspoon's wife happened to be the way of Carth-
cart, where she discovered some cheeses in a milk house in
that neighbourhood, and also that the family had been
warning some clothes, upon this information Wotherspoon
intioed me to go with him, I being drunk, be having high-
land clothes, a bonnet and tartan plaid, we set out in the
evening, and according to her direction went to Cathcast,
the house which we designed for was at the other side of
the water, however, before our going the length of it, we
broke first into Mr Dow's milk house, and then into his
dwelling house, where we were about carrying off a chest
but the servant maid having heard us and called on her
master, we were obliged to run off, Wotherspoon blamed
me for not turning back and knocking down the girl : we
then proceeded in search of the house we were designed &
searched the milk-house, we did not find the cheeses as we
expected, but took the cock out of the milk barrel and
spilled the milk, but we broke into the house and carried
therefrom a quantity of clothes, which except a very few
articles we hid in a part near at hand, and went back
thereafter and took away some of the said articles, threw
the rest over the dyke and left them.                
On another occasion Wotherspoon and I cut cut a wea-
ver's webb out of his loom in Gorbals, but by my persuasi-
on he put it back again , and I refuse that I gave the black
cleathes now in the Chamber of Glasgow to the said Tho-
mas Wotherspoon, or knew any thing of them. Many
other things we were guilty of, but is useless to go into
particulars.-It will now be asked what connections I had
with Wotherspoon, and how I came to carry on this trade
with him: I was a deserter from the 26 Reg. of foot tho'
after wards sworn in as a deserter from the 9th, & having
come to this part I staid a few days at my brother John
Scott's in the neighbourhood of Gorbals, and my brother's
wife seeing me idle, and fearing danger if I remained about
their house, would not allow me to stay there, & having
been formerly acquainted with Wotherspoon when  he was
confined in the cels at Glasgow, where I also was, I took
up with him in his exploits, and I can safely say, that I
received but a small part of the booty for even in this in-
stance, Wotherspoon and his wife were not honest to me,
for they only gave me a few shillings now and then, which
I generally drank with them; indeed then gave me plen-
ty of drink, to which, alas! I was too much adicted, for
I answered their purpose best when I was half drunk.
Let none say, or so much as harbour in their mind a
suspicion that I am blaming the said Thomas Wotherspoon
or his wife for any thing they are not guilty of on account
of sheir being witnesses against me and my said brother
John Scott at our trial, no I appeal to God Almighty &
to their own consciences, when they read these lines, if I
have not told truth as a dying man and as I desire to die
in peace with all mankind without any grudge, and I
earnestly entreat to be forgiven of God and of every per-
son I have offended -The said Thomas Wotherspoon and
Bethia Kent his wife, accused the said John Scott my bro-
ther, as being guilty with me of the crimes for which I
am now to die and poor man, he is condemned also in
consequence of their evidence, tho' at present our most
Gracious Sovereign has been pleased to grant him a respite
during his pleasure. It is not time for me now to disemble
or tell falsehood, and although it may be thought natural
for me to do good to my brother if it were in my power,
yet every unprejudiced heart and mind believe me to be
serious, and that I talk as in the presence of and as I shall
answer to a great God, I do here by declare that my said
brother John Scott, was not guilty with me, nor accessary
to, nor knew of any of the crimes laid to his charge, as
along with me mentioned in the indictment, and for which
he is condemned, altho' from the nature and effect of  the evidence
against him and me it was impossible for the Jury not to bring him
in guilty along with me, but I would advise Wotherspoon and his
wife seriously to consider the share they have had in this matter before
it be too late. I did in peace with all men, I freely forgive judge
and Jury, who both paid great attention to my trial, and gave a \ill\
verdict and sentence against me. I return my thanks to the Counsel
and other gentlemen employed in my defence, as they all did the
utmost of their power. I return my thanks to the Ministers and
other Christian people in this city who have attended me since I was
lost. I return my thanks to the Keeper and under Keepers of the
Tolbooth of Glasgow, particularly Mrs. Brownlie for their kindness
every person young and old to seek and fear God, and I warn them
against idleness, drinking, and keeping bad company; and I entreat
all to keep the Sabbath day holy to the Lord, as they regard their
own souls  salvation  O blessed Redeemer. who came into the world
to seek and to save them that are lost; I hope through thy merits the
forgiveness of my manifold sins; Into thy hands I commit my Spirit.
                                                                      WILLIAM SCOTT.

The above Speech was signed and delivered in our presence,
JAMES BROWNLIE, Keeper of the JAIL.
WILLIAM YOUNG, Under Jailor.A Letter from Helen Hutton, who
was Execute at Haddington,   on
Friday last, the 25th of February,
written to her Mother a few Days
before her Execution.

Loving  Mother,

THis is to let you know that my dear Brother has taken much more
Pains both as to my Soul and Body, than ever I did deserve, and
especially, intreating me to tell all the Truth, for my poor
Soul's Accompt, desiring me always to take Care of what I
say, and to be very busy, and earnest in seeking for Mercy through Jesus Christ
our Redeemer and Saviour, in whom Mercy is only to be found, but not without
great Pains, before my poor Soul can be received, which I ought to be
minding most. As for the asked Truth I have laid it down, in so far as in me
lies, about the whole Action; and as for the horrid Murder I am most innocent,
but indeed I was in the Room with them that committed the Action, and
they threatned me most desperately with a Razor, to go and commit the said
Murder; but indeed I have great Reason to bless and Praise  my God of
Heaven, that did take so much Care of me, and kept my Hands free of it
as to my Innocence in the Action, when I was brought in, both by the Cap-
tain's Man and the Osler. The Gold and Silver Plate my Master had, did
intice them, and I not yielding to their Advice, was every Day in Danger of
my Life The Friday's Night before they committed the Murder, they
came and threatned me; and to save my Master and Mistresses Life, I de-
sired them to take mine; but it was not my Fortune to die that Death : So
I desire you dear Mother, that you will grieve as moderately for me as you
can, for Christ's Sake, my merciful Saviour, in whom, and through whose
Merits, I hope to obtain Salvation.

My Brother has taken all Pains about me, in getting Ministers to converse
with me, about my poor Immortal Soul, which is waiting patiently for its
Change, which I trust will be a happy One, I ought to praise my merciful good
GOD, that I am come the Length I am come, to see what a cursed Thing
Sin is, which I am daily helped to ; and wishes all Young and Old may take
Pains upon their Walk before GOD, wishing you my Sorrowful and offended
Mother, the Grace of Patience from the Liberal Hand of GOD, that giveth,
liberally, and upbraideth not. My dear Mother, I hope you will take this my
Dissolution from the Hand of God, who takes us out of the World to him-
self by very different Ways. You have done the Duty of a good
Parent to me, for which I Trust the good GOD, whom I have offended Times
beyond Number, will reward you. Lord grant you heavenly Com-
fort and Eternal Happiness, which is the hearty Wishes of me
your Daughter, who with Patience waits upon my Redeemer, who is
able and willing, to save to the Outermost all that come unto him, seeing
he everliveth to make Intercession for us; and he has given many great and
precious Promises for poor miserable Sinners, such as I am, he giveth Rest to
the weary Soul, he faith, Ho every one that thirsteth, come you to the Waters, and
you that have not Money, buy Wine and Milk, without Money and Price, to whose
Care and Protection I leave you and my dear kind Brother. In thee O Lord
I put my Trust.

I let you know, I die in Peace with all Men, and with these Two poor
Men, who accuse me falsly to the World, as I expect Forgiveness of my mer-
ciful sufficient Saviour Jesus Christ, whose Blood cleanseth all Sins. The
GOD of Peace who raised up Jesus from the Dead, be with you and all
Friends.

HELEN   HUTTON.

P. S. Excuse a trembling
Heart and Hand.



Edinburgh :   Printed in the Year 1726

An Account of the Life and Dying Confession of William Anderson
Horner, Son to Peter Anderson Horner, Living in the Parish of
Saline in the Shire of Pearth, who Murdered Elison Mitchill,
Wife of David Blyth Horner also,in the beginning of Winter,1708.
in manner following.

HE has declared and confessed, That the said David Blyth, being gone a Soldier abroad for
some Years, the said Elison his Wife, came very frequently to his Father Peter Ander-
son's House, who lent his Horse often to her to thig Corn with, and other things in their
Season : But that her frequent coming gave such Offence to William's Mother, and he using
her Company, that the Mother warn'd him to forbear her Company, and told him, that the
did foresee his Ruine by it: But whether he the said William would or not, the said Elison
would keep his Company,and follow him whithersoever he would go; and did continue so to
do, for two Years before he had any carnal Dealing with her; but was so bewi tched with
heratlast, that they lived together as Man and Wife, for almost a Year before the said Mur-.
der was committed, in Adultery, her Husband being alive, and now come home. That on
Saturday the Murder was committed, hehadsenta dozon of Spoons to the Market, and 14
pence was got for them ; that in the Evening, he met with his Mother, and the said Elison
coming home, who went all three with another Man into an Ale-House at Laggs, where
they Drank, and disagreeing, the Women went away, and that he in a short timefollow'd ;
that the Mother went home, but he met with Elison sitting on the Road through the Ley-
Ground homeward ; and that it being dark, he ask'd who it was, whereupon she told him,
he should soon knew, and immediately took hold of him by the Hair and Crava te, thinking to
have Strangled him, as he thought ; whereupon he being in Drink, drew out the same Knif
which was produced before the Lords of Justiciary, and gave her a Stob in the Neck, and
which not having had its defign'd Effect, he returned the 2d and 3d, which last, went to,
or near the Heart, at which she fell to the Ground, as it were Groaning to death ; whereup-
on he left her, and went home, and told his Father and Mother what he had done ; who told
him, that he would sadly repent it: That his Parents chiding of him, made him return to
her again (being but about a short half Mile from home) and finding her struggling to get
to the next House,he helped her thither,and recommended her to their Care : And hearingon
Sunday that she was dead, he endeavoured to make his Escape, but was pursued and seized by
Alexander Taylor Good-man of the Mill ofBallarh, and Alexander White a neighbour Farmer,
and committed him to the Prison of Creiff, where he lay till he was brought to this City Pri-
son in February last ; in which place he lay till Munday the 26th of December last, when the
Lords of Justiciary, after clear and full Probation of the Murder aforesaid being led against
him, their Lordships Sentenc'd him to be hang'd on this day to death, and afterwards to be
hung up in Chains between Edinburgh and Leith, to terrify others from the like Crime.

Ever since the pronouncing of the said Sentence, the learned and pious Divines of the City,
and others, (but most frequently the ordinary Minister of the Tolbooth) did Visit, Examine,
and Exhort him to Confess, and acknowledge the hainousness of his Crime: But notwith-
standing of the same, and the many Learn'dand most edifying Lectures and Sermons he heard
by the Ordinary, and others in the Prison, (and more especially of extraordinary Discourses
preach'd by the Ordinary on the first Instant, on these Words Rev. cha. ver. -Blessed are
the dead that dye in Lord, Pointing out the Terrors of Death to all Men, especially to the
Wicked, and the accruing Comforts to the Godly) yet he continued very obsur'd, and hard
Hearted, until Munday last, that the Chains ordered to hing him up in, were try'd upon him,
to see how they fitted him, then his Heart softned, and confessed his Crime, and the hai-
noufnels thereof to the Ordinary, who took great Pains upon him ; and since is become more
pliable and attentive to Exhortation, Reading, Prayer and Praises: But often (upon the Que-
stion) said that he could not Pray. He was brought down to the Hall last Night, where se-
veral of the Debt Prisoners and Keeprs sat with him, some of them constantly going about
some Exercise and Duties, at which he seemed to be extreamly satisfied, and sigh'd often,
Praying God to Pardon his Sins for Christ's sake.                                       '

About 8 this Morning, the Minister of Saline, in whose Parish his Parents live, came to
him, to whom he confessed Breaches of the Lord's Day, Drunkeness Leudness, Disobedi-
ence to his Parents, especially in relation to the said Elison Mitchill, Lieing, Theiving, &c.
particularly 3 Shillings Sterling he stold from a Neigbbour Prisoner since he came to their Pri-
son, but was discover'd, and taken from him again; He desired the aforesaid Minister,
that he would Pray God to forgivehim his Sins for Christ's sake, yea and the Minister
prepar'dhim tounderstand some of the Chief Principles of the Christian Religion, concern-
ing Faith and Repentance, &c. so that there are good Signs of his serious Repentance;
Considering his unhappy Education and Ignorance in the Knowledge of God : And when he
went to the Scaffold, he acknowledged the Murder, Breach of the Lord's Day, Cursing and
Swearing, and Disobeying his Parents &c. And desired, thatall the Spectators there, might
take Warning by him.THE LAST

Words and Confession

o f

DAVID   MYLES

Who was Executed for Incest, at Edinburgh, on
the 27 Day of November,  1702.

DAvid Myles, having commited Incest with his Sister Margaret Myles, both
were Condemn'd to be Hanged : the Woman upon the Twentieth and the
Man upon the twenty Seventh of November,  She Dyed very obduredly and
Obstinately, and gave little or no satisfaction to the Spectators ; But he (a
young man, not 2o years) dyed very Seriously and Christianly; for when
he was brought to the place of Execution, Mr. James Heart Exhorted to Re-
pentance, and now at his last Hour to confess, what he had to say, concerning
his Crime before the People. Whereupon he went to the Eastern end of the

 scaffold, and said, Good People, give ear a while, I now confess before you
all, That I was a very bad Liver, and a great Sabbath breaker, and not only a
Sabbath breaker, but also a Swearer and Blasphemer of the Holy Name of GOD;
and Guilty both of Incest and Fornication. I got a very ill Example from my
Parents; Therefore I desire all you that are Parents to give a good Copy to
your Children and desire that you would all pray to GOD for me; Where-
upon the Auditors cryed out, Lord have Mercy upon his Soul ; And Mr. Heart
Prayed to this purpose, viz. That God would give him a sight of his Sins, and
open a Door of Mercy to him  and that the infinit Goodness might speedily pre-
vent him, &c. Then he sung the first 4 Verses of the 51  Psalm : which being
done, he went to the Western end of the Scaffold, and earnesily prayed to GOD,
to pardon all his sins, to wash him, and cleanse him from all his Iniquities, thro-
his mercy, and with the Blood of  Jesus Christ his Saviour: and that  he was un-
worthy to come before so holy a GOD, for he was a great Sinner and Transgres-
sor: His Sins were great and many, but tho' he was weary and heavy laden, yet
hoped he would find Rest; and tho' his Body suffered upon the Gibbet, yet he
hoped his soul would go to Glory, &c. Then he went up the Ladder, and weep-
ing sore, entreated the Spectators to take warning by him, and avoid Sin, left
they fall in the same snare. Then he said, O ye that are Parents of Children,
God grant ye may cast them a better Copy than ever I got; And all ye that are
young folk, who have your Years before your hands, seek God, and fly all Sin,
for one Sin brings on another O all of you that see me this day, Take warning
by me, and put up your petitions to God for me. Then Mr Heart prayed ear-
nestly for him again ; who, when be had done, enquired at him if he was wil-
ing to dye ? He answe ed, Ay, ay, I am very willing: my Offence is great, very
great: I do not deserve nor desire to live, for I deserve both Torment here, and
Torment hereafter : I am very weary of my Sins. Being enquired at, if he
thought his Sentence just? or if he pardoned the Judges? He answered, My
Sentence is very Just, I forgive the Judges, and all the World, and God forgive
them. Mr. Heart asked him, what hope he had of his going to Heaven, or which,
of the promises of the Bible he could lippen to, or rely upon. He answered, ma-
ny, many, but the particular places do not Strik me in the mind, at present,
Mr. Heart  said, you told me in prison, of that in the 11 of Matthew, Came un-
to me all ye that Labour, and are heavy Laden,and I will give you rest. whereupon
he said, I indeed am in Labour, and am heavy laden, but I hope God will give
me rest, and receive my Soul in Glory He confessed again, that he had been a
great Sabbath breaker : After which Mr.Heart recommended him to GOD.

The last Speech and dying  declaration of JAMES HENDERSON, late

                         

in Bainshole, who was executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 29th day
of October 1790, for the murder of Alexander Gillespie, Slater, and
his body given to the Surgeons to be dissected. 

Aberdeen, printed by James Chalmers.     Glasgow, re printed.                

I JAMES HENDERSON, aged  about fifty
years, was born  in the town of Huntly, and
county of Aberdeen,  of honest and   creditable
purents, who gave me a good and Christian edu-
cation, according to the best of their power. Hap-
py is it For them that they are not now living to
be witnesses of my shameful and ignominious end !
As soon as   I was able  to do any thing,-I got a
small pack, and travelled the country for a few
years, as a chapman.    In  this trade I by my in-
dustry and sobriety contrived to lay by   as much
as enabled me to set  up shop in the town of Insch,
where  I resided  tor several years.    But misfor-
tunes came on me by losses and bad debts, which
occasioned me to fall behind hand, and my affairs
grew worse and worse, till at length my creditors
took all I had, and rouped me out  of house and
hald.   About this time I took a fever, and was so
had, that  my reason was hurt, and was for some
months out of my senses, when I was put under
the care of she Doctor at Tocher, by whose  skill,
under the blessing of God, I was again restored
to the use of my reason, though destitute of mo-
ney or  means, and  forced to  begin   the World
afresh

I betook myself to travelling the country again,
and  for more  than seven years  followed my for-
mer occupation.     But  at langth I thought it time
to settle, and accordingly  married  and took pos-
session of Benshole, where I had a small shop for
such goods as suited the country; and as it could
not be expected that I could get much change in
that remote place,  so as to support my family, I
also kept a public house, and between both trades
I earned a decent subsistence.

I now come to the unfortunate accident Which
brings me to this deplorable end, and I solemnly
swear, on the word of a dying man who must in a
very short space appear before his Maker, that
whatever I did in this unhappy matter, was in
SELF-DEFENCE, and that I  had neither malice
nor ill-will at Alexander Gillespie, nor any other
man.

It was sworn on my trial by a beggar boy, that
Gillespie came to my house seeking a drain, and
that I struck him acress the head with an axe,
which killed him. If this was true, I must have
been a monster of iniquity indeed, to kill a man
standing peaceably in my house without any pro-
ill . No-other witness but this vagrant boy
coule say they saw me strike him; and his testi-
mony was so contradicted in circumstances by the
other witnesses, that no stress could be laid on it.
I therefore proceed to narrate this unhappy aflair
as it really happened; and I hope the world will
credit  my narration. I have no tempration now
to tell an untruth ; and it would be an awful thing
to go out of the world into the  presence of the
great  Judge of all the earth, with a lie in my right
hand.

I was awakened in the night between Saturday
and Sunday,the 10th and 11th of July last, by the
noise  of  breaking one of my Windows, by throw-
of stones  at it. I immediately got up and saw a
man almost half in at the Window ; on which I
took up a sharp slate stone which he had thrown
in, and struck him on the  back of the  head   on
which he fell down, and I  took him to the back
of the house, Where he was found by the people
when they came up, I understand many people still
believe that I gave Gellespie his mortal wounds
With an axe ; but let them consider that a thin
sharp slate stone will cut as clean as a knife; and
that there is hardly any other kind of stones in that
neighbourhood ; so that he himself furnished the
fatal instrument which brought him and me to an
untimely end.

I shall only say, that it is well known in the
country, that his character was none of the best;
and if I had been allowed, I could have proved
that breaking of windows, was no new thing to him.
But now there is no help, and I must subrnit to
my hard fate.

I hope none will be so cruel as to cast up rny
sorrowful fate to my distressed wife and family : I
hope the Lord will support her and them under
their afflictions ; and that he who is the father of
the fatherless, and the widow's shield, will be
their God and guide.

I return my sincere thanks to the ministers of
all denominations, who have visited me since I was
condemned. I hope the pains they have taken to
point out to me the way to eternal life, will re-
dound to the glory and praise of their heavenly
Master and to my everlasting happiness.

To the keeper of the tolbooth and his servants
I desire to return thanks for their humanity and
attention to me; and I pray that there kindness
may be returned  to them sevenfold.

I desire to die in peace and charity with all
men ; from the heart I forgive rny enemies,
hope for forgiveness at the awful judgement seat
before which I am now to appear.

I acknowledge that by nature I was a child of
wrath, and an heir of hell, dead in trespasses and
in sin, without God, and without hope in the
world, under the curse of the law, but when I
read these words in John chap. iii. 16, 17. 18,
and that " God who commanded the light to shine
" out of darkness," shined in my heart, to give
me the knowledge of salvation by the remission of
sins according to first  John c v, v, 10. " so that I
" know when my spirit is absent from my body it
''shall be present with the Lord," I long for that
happy time, when I shall behold my God in glory
in the land of uprightness.

 As the Lord in his providence has made me a
example, it is my earnest prayer, that my death
may.be of service to others, and that every on
may see and know that there is a God that judgeth
in the earth. It would comfort me [   ] by
my terrible  exit one person in this multiude might
turn from his sins unto God.

And new, O Lord Jesus, I turn to thee, Hea
thou my last words. Remember me, now tha
thou art in thy kingdom, and be merciful to me
this day; receive my sinful soul into the arms o
thy mercy, and grant that my sufferings in this life
being ended, I may be blessed in the enjoyment o
thee to  all eternity. Amen and Amen. 

                 
JAMES HENDERSONTHE LAST DYING WORDS, SPEECH, & CONFESSION

                                                                            OF                

ELIZABETH WARRINER. 

Who was Convicted at the last  Lincoln Assizes, for the Horrid Mur-
der of her Step-Son, J. Warriner, by poison, and who was Exe-
cuted at the City of Linclon, an Saturday the 27th of Oct 1821.

ELIZABETH WARRINER was indicted for the Murder of J. Warriner, her Step-Son,
 at Surfleet, by administering poison to him. The prisoner was the second wife of a
Farmer. The deceased was his Son by a former marriage, about 12 years of age. From
the period of her marriage, the prisoner treated the child with great cruelty On various
occasions she was heard to say she would be the death of him. At length on the morning
stated in the indictment, the boy, immediately after breakfast, which consisted of bread and
milk, was taken ill. Medical aid was called in, but he breathed his last in the course of the
day. After she had poisoned the unfortunate boy, she dragged him out of the house, and
put him in the stable, and hanged him up, with a rope round his neck, to make people be-
lieve he had hung himself, as there was no marks of violence round the neck. The body
was opened by a surgeon, when the stomach and intestines were found to exhibit all the ap-
pearance of arsenic having been administered. It was afterwards ascertained that a quan-

\ill\  of arsenic was in the possession of the father, who used it for some husbandry purpose,

\ill\ which the prisoner had access.    It further turned out, that a small quantity was found
\ill\ he basin from which he had eaten his breakfast: and that the prisoner had given him his
\ill\ kfast in that basin.    This on circumstance, added to a variety   of others, which is the
\ill\ se of the examination of the witnesses, seven in numher, came out, led to to the conclu-
 \ill\  that the prisoner administered the poison.

 Mr. Justice Holroyd summed up tne evidence, and the Jury found her gulity, The
\ill\ in passing sentence, obserted to the prisoner, that the crime of murder in all cases
\ill\ an heinous one, and in all countries was punished with death; but there were gradations
\ill\ in this crime, and her's was of the worst nature. She had destroyed her Step-Son; and
no other motive could be assigned than that arising from a cruel, hardened, and vicious dis-
position-her crime was that of muder, the most heinous and cruel.-He hoped she would
sincerely repent of her crime, and take all possible care of her soul during the few hours she
had to live, so to be reconciled to her offended Maker; he feared she was not so convinced
of the necessity of this as she ought to be, but trusted she would seek for that advice which
would satisfy her of that necessity, and enable her to meet her future Judge, with a well-
rounded hope in his mercy from the sincerity of her contrition; all that remained for him to
do was to pass sentence upon her which the law required, which was, that she should be
taken from whence she came, and  on Saturday the 27th October, 1821, to be taken from
thence, to the place of execution, there to be hanged by the neck till she was dead, and that
her body should be delivered to the surgeons for dissection-concluding with- "and may
the Lord have  mercy on your soul "

The moment she heard that her life was to be forfeited for the barbarous murder, and her
cruel treatment to her Step-Son, she jumped up from the floor in the greatest agony, wring-
ing her hands, and other symptoms of distraction.

About ten o'clock on Saturday morning, she ascended the fatal scaffold with a greater de-
gree of fortitude and resignation than could have been expected; and addressed the numer-

ous spectators around her in nearly the following words;  "Good people, you see now be-
fore you an unfortunate woman, cut off just in the prime of life, and for the most dreadful of
al crimes, Murder! let my dreadful fate be a warning to you not to suffer your passion to
work forcibly on your minds, which has been the cause of the melancholy situation in which
I am now placed; let me beg your prayers- good people pray for me; O pray for me."

On the morning  of her awful execution, she was dressed all in white, with a child suckling
at her breast, which was taken from her by the executioner  and her melancholy cries was
heard at a great distance. It was shocking to the surrounding multitude.         

She then dropped a handkerchief she held in her hand, as a signal, crying, O my Child! my
Child ! and was immediately launched into a dreadful eternity.

printed by John Muir, Glasgow.    T   H   E         L A S T                          

  Speech and  Confession,

                   OF                                

Margaret Anderson, who was Execut
ted at Edinburgh, on Wedensday be:
ing the Twenty 2d of April
17' 3 for the murdering of her own

Child.  



SHE was Born in the Patish of Siris in the Shire of Fife, her Parents learned her
to Read the Scriptures, and gave her good Example and Exportations to live
a good Life:  She confesseth she has not  followed their Advice; neither did
she Honour nor Obey her Parents as she ought to have done. she confesseth to her
great Grief, That she lived in a very loose and unbecoming Manner, never desiring
to hear or to be acquainted with the Way to fear G O D ; She dose not say that
she was much  inclinéd to Curling, Swearing, or telling of Lies,  but she confesseth

she was very o'ten guilty of breaking the sabbath-day, and likewise Confesses her
sentence is very just, and that she all along designed to destroy that Child. She
giving an Acccout of her bringing forth a Child being a Boy upon the 27th of
December last, whose Father's Name is Robert Bready, his Father Collin Bready
Gardner; she also giving an Account. That the child's father was willing to goto
Couper, in Order to bring something to her to make her part with this Child, but
did not do it : but his Father the old Man made her to Drink off Herbs a long
Time and took blood of her that same Day she brought forth the Child. she ac-
knowledges that when the Child was Born, immediately she put bim betwixt the
 Bed and the Straw under her  self. And declares that this Child was Born at Blebe.

And that she many times wished she might bear it betwixt Towns, that she might

the more Conveniently destroy it . But when the time of her Delivery came, she boro
the Child in her master's House who lives in the Town of Blebo in the Parish of Ber-

ineck. She declares the Child did never Cry, nor make any lively Symptom to her
Knowledge, but  her not calling for Assistance of Women as she ought to have done
on such an Occasion and putting the Child under the Chaff Bed she owns her self
Guilty  of Murdering the Child ; and being asked what Sin did stare her most in the
face, her reply was.  That the greatest Thing which star'd her in the Face, was,That
She committed Adultery with her own Master'a Year before she conceived with this
Child. And being asked if she desired to live any longer. she  said, No :For I am
in hopes that in  and through the Mecirs of her Saviour's Sufferings, she was at peaec
with her Maker; She blessed G O D, That she was not sweept out off this World
without having a Time to Repent for the most heinous Sins which she has been
guilty of.                                                                  

She owns herself to be one of the greatest Sinners on Earth and that the Parish she
came from is happy, and that the People has Reason to bless G O D that such a vile
Person  is out from amongst them.                                                             

She desires all good Persons to Pray for her,and that all young Women may take an
Example by her. She is about Twenty six Years of Age. The DEADLY GROANS of the WHISKY STILLS.
Who were cohdcmned to suffer Martyrdom on the 17th of this present
month of July 1795, for the horrid and bloody murder of sterving
above 200,000 prosessed Christians in this island.

With the sorrowful Lamentation of all the Dram Drinker's.

COME all ye that are fond of me, it is to
you that I now For this time address myself,
Oh my dear friends, you have no doubt, heard
of the fatal stroke that I am about to receive
on the 17th of this present month, and in or-
der that you may pity me now under the sen-
tence of almost total annihilation from society,
especially those of my greatest admiters; Oh,
  my dear friends, what will now become of you,
who clasped me into your very bosom every
morning ! you will no more court me upon so
easy terms as you have hitherto done.

It will be necessary, in order that you may
condole with me, that you know my name and
designation ; it is true 1 have got a great many
names, or as I should rather call them nick-
names, which differ very materially from that
which I first had, which was Aquavitae, or
more properly speaking the water of life; the
name I generally go by at this day is WHISKY,
a name which differs very much from the
original of my origin ; but those who were my
real friends, always gave me a new name, which
I the more readily put up with as I knew them
to be my real admires, and it now gives me the
greatest effacation, that I must be sorever bani-
shed from the society of all those, who took so
much delight in my company, and was always
happy, when they had me stending on the table
before them. My friend would say to his
neighbour, will you take a dram, or will you
take a caulker, or will you taste the blue this
morning, you will be much the better of it; and
if my friend and lover got his neighbour to par-
take of me it was rarely that he lost any thing
by introducing me to his acquaintance, for I
very often was returned with new strength, and
I was swallowed up with the greatest delight in
mouthfuls; and such as were dumb, I made
them speak with the greatest case by the time
I had touched their tongue with half a dozen of
fills of my little christal Jacket, my dear could
talk of politicks, and the weighty affairs of state,
with the greatest volatility, and case. I then
could beat the French with big words & strange
grimaces.

Our wise legislators, who are no doubt,
possessed with a great deal of wisdom have fat
upon me, tried and condemned me to six months

annihilation, not for any crime that they found
in me, but that I was destructive to that poor
diminitive grain called Barley, which few or
none can make use of until it be metamorpho-
sed into my pure and christaline form. May,
in this transparent colour I have added thou-
sands to his Majest's forces, and for all these
good offices I have done, I am doom'd to
destruction.

And there is nothing hurts me more, than
that of a temporary death, it ever I come a-
gain into existence, I am much afraid that many
of my most intimate acquaintance will be gone
sorever to the place of oblivion, for want of
that comfort which I usually gave to those
who were my hourly companions.

It has been often said that I was the death
of thoufands of the leige subjects, but I can in-
controvertibly prove that those who have for-
saken, and given over taking me into their bo-
soms, have died very soon thereafter, whilst
those who have continued by me, are living
witnesses of the truth of what I aver, and I
am certain before the end of January thousands
will die with the greatest heaviness on their
spirits for the want of ME to comforts them.

It is now proposed that all those who are
possessed of Stills, will send them into the dif-
ferent barracks, now erected in the kingdom,
in purpose that their masters may not be oblig-
ed to pay rent for useless utenfils. and to ga-
ther all the lick sticks in the island to watch
them; and as they will be out of employ-
ment, and for tear of them getting a bad
habit of idleness, it will be requisite they
undergo the exercise of their duty, in case
they forget how to perform it when rhey
are again set agoing, And besides this it will
be another advantage, as they will defend the
barracks, while our brave soldiers are keeping
the French from landing on our Coasts; and if
this employment shall be found to be too little
for them to distill a little now and then of a supe-
rior strength, in order to manufacturs powder
with It, to shoot at the French if they shall
attempt a landing, and if they should, dare to
land, these idle gentry will be ready to destroy
whatever may remain, for fear of these banditi
getting possession of it, as the Cormagnols are
said to fight best when they have got drunk,The Last Speech and Dying Words,

OF THE

CROSS of EDINBURGH

Which was hang'd, drawn and quarter'ed, on Monday the 15th
March, 1756, for the horrid Crime of being an Incum-
brance to the Street.

YOU sons of Scotia, mourn and weep,
Express your grief with sorrow deep ;
Let aged Sires be bath'd in tears,
And ev'ry heart be fill'd with fears,
Let rugged rocks with griefs abound,
And echo's multiply the Sound ;
Let rivers,   hills, let woods and plains,
Let morning dews, let winds and rains,
United join to aid my woe,
And loudly mourn my overthrow------
For Arthur's ov'n *, and Edinburgh cross,
Have by new schemers got a toss;
We heels o'er head are tumbled down,
The modern taste is London town.

I was built up in Gothic times,
And have stood several hundred reigns;
Sacred my mem'ry and my name,
For Kings and Queens  I did proclaim;
I peace and war did oft declare,
And rous'd my country every where ;
Your ancestors around me walk'd,      
Your kings and nobles 'side me talk'd; 
And lads and lasses, with delight,
Set tryst with me to meet at night;
No tryster e're was at a loss,
For why, I'll meet you at the cross.
On me great men have lost their lives,
And for a Maiden left their wives.
Low rogues like ways oft got a peg,
With turnip, t-d, or rotten egg,
 And when the mob did miss their butt,
I was bedaub'd like any slut.
With loyal men, on loyal days,
I dress'd myself in lovely bays,
And with sweet apples treat the crowd,
While they huzza'd around me loud.



Professions many have I seen,
And never have disturbed been:
I've seen the Tory party slain,
And Whigs exulting o'er the plain;
I' ve seen again the Tories rise,
And with loud shouting pierce the skies,

Then mount the scale, and chace the Whig,
From Pentland-hiIls and Bothwel-brig.
I've seen the covenants by all sworn,
And likeways seen them burnt and torn.
I neutral stood, as peaceful Quaker,
With neither side was I partaker.

I wish my life had longer been,
That I might greater ferlies seen ,
Or else like other things, decay,
Which time alone doth waste away.
But since I now must lose my head,
I at my last this lesson read,
" Tho' wealth, and youth, and beauty shine,
" And all the graces round yon twine.
" Think on your end, nor proud behave,
" There's nothing sure this side the grave."

You jolly youths, with richest wine,
Who drunk my dirge, for your propine,
I do bequeath my lasting boon,
May heav'n preserve you late and soon ;
May royal wine, in royal bowls,
And lovely women, chear your souls,
Till by old age you gently die,
To live immortal in the sky.

To own my faults I have no will,
For I have done both good and ill:
As to the crime for which I die,
To my last gasp, Not guilty, I.

At my destroyers bear no grudge,
Nor do you stain their mason-lodge,
Tho' well may all by-standers see,
That better masons built up me.
The Royal statue in the closs
Will share the fate of me poor cross;
Heavens, earth and seas, all in a range,
Like me will perish for Exchange.

CLAUDERO.

* A piece of very great antiquity, the property of a gentleman near Falkirk, who destroyed it,  to build up a mill-dam-head
the river Carrron-But the river (swell'd as it ware with resentment) soon swept it off