A Fully True, and Particular Account of that Awful
Bloody BATTLE for the BREEKS! that was
Fought last Saturday Night, in'this Neighbourhood,
between a Sprightly Young Couple, who had been
married a whole Fortnight; and which did not end
without Torn Clothes, Broken Heads,.and Bloody
Noses; together with a Copy of the Articles of

Agreement' made between them, after the Battle was
over!

A Sprightly, good-looking young couple was married about three
weeks ago in this neighbourhood, who lived most loving, a-
greeable, happy, and contented for the first twelve days or so ; bless-
ing the fortunate and lucky moment they first met, and the still
luckier moment they were buckled together in the happy bonds of
wedlock. But, alas ! alas ! little did they know about it yet, every
rose has its thorn, and every sweet its bitter.

The young wife conceived the idea one morning, of going out
after break-fast to visit some of her friends and old acquaintances,
which she accordingly did, promising to her husband to be home
in good time to give him his dinner; but, having called at several
different places, and staid some short time at each place, gossiping
and tasting ,a little of the mirth-inspiring John Barley-corn, forgot
her promise and her beloved   spouse at the same time, and staid
too long.     On arriving at home, in rather a high key, as the saying
is, about nine o'clock in the evening, and on her husband's gently
questioning her where she had been all day, with  whom  she had
staid so long after the time she promised to be home, and why she
did not come to give him his dinner at the proper hour ?   She
haughtily answered, that he had no business with where she was,
with whom she staid, nor why she did not come home sooner;
" for," says she, " I don t think I am at all answerable to you for
my conduct, you impudent fellow."    The pool? husband on hearing
such language and viewing such behaviour, from his hitherto mild,
modest, loving spouse, looked quite amazed, and was absolutely at
a loss what to think or say, or how to act, for a moment; but, re-
covering a little from his astonishment, and  observing that the
fumes of the barley-bree had evidently got into her upper, storey,
and was the real cause of the wonderful change in her conduct and
appearance, he turned round to her quite vexed and angry, and ve-
hemently cried out, " what is the matter with you, woman, are you
drunk ?" " Drunk," replied she, in a perfect fury with rage, anger,
and whisky, " give me such  another word,  sirrah, and I'll make
your face ring against the wall, you brazen faced rascal," at the
same time accompanying the words  with the action, by instantly
giving her beloved husband a slap 011 the chafts.

Behold now, all you married people, the spell is thus broken,
which, by a little attention and prudent management, might long be
preserved, the source of much mutual comfort, joy, and happiness ;
but which, in their case, as now plainly appeared to every person.
led to a very different result indeed. For, no sooner the husband
received this rather rude salutation on his cheek, than he returned it
ten-fold, conceiving his manhood and authority, as lord and master
of the house, to be questioned, and in danger of being assumed by
his partner, who, he conceived, ought to know better, at least, " he
was determined to make her know her duty. Such a scene then fol-
lowed that beggars all description—stools, chairs, tables, tongs, po-
kers, dishes, &c. flew in all directions, and the noise, bustle, and
screaming brought all the neighbours to this scene of havoc, blood,
and confusion, which lasted a considerable time.

At last, however, as might well be expected, the wife got a good
threshing, and cried mightily for a parley, which, through the inter
ference of some of the bystanders, was soon obtained. She then fell
down on her bended knees, and piteously implored forgiveness, ac-
knowledging her fault, in the most submissive terms, and promising
faithfully never to be guilty of the like conduct again.

The husband seeing her now in this humble and submissive pos-
ture, began to relax in his severity, and feeling symptoms of return-
ing affection, (for he had married her really for pure love,) forgave
her all that passed, on the following easy conditions :

ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT.

I.  That she should never get drunk, either at home or abroad, again.

II.  That she should never let the packman nor the tailor kiss her

again.          And, Lastly, That she should never attempt to break

his head with the brass candle-stick or the ladle, nor his  nose
with the three footed stool.    To all which she solemnly agreed.

Upon which he sent for two bottles of Strong  Ale which  they
drank, and repaired immediately after to bed where all recollection of
their animosities were buried in oblivion, and peace and unity firmly
established for the future.

Edinburgh. Printed for A Turnbull..Price One Penny.DIALOGUE.

A LITTLE COMEDY OF

MARRIAGE.

Dramatis    Personæ,—FALKLAND,    BELCOUR,

This popular  Dialogue can   always be had at the   Poet's   Box.
182 OVERGATE,   DUNDEE.

	Enter Belcour and Falkland,
FaIk.    What, Belcou ! how are you my friend? 	
	you look sad.
Bal. No. do I ?
Falk. Do you ! why you are but the shadow of
	what you were. Some little attachment eh?
Be!. Well to confess it, I am horribly in love,
lost, utterly lost, to a lady or rather an angel,
with rich dark hair, a fair complexion, sparkling
eyes, lips like rubies, teeth like pearls, a voice
like a nightingale, a figure like a fairy, and a
fortune of £10,000.
Falk. You dont say so!
Bel.    Dont I, but I do though, she has the soft-
ness of Pysebe, the beauty of Venus, the presence
of Juno, the virtue of Diana, the wisdom of Min-
erva, and—ten thousand pounds.
Falk.    Then I suppose you are engaged to her ?
Bel.    Yes, that is it, partially, not altogther.
Falk.    Have you proposed ?
Bel.    No, not proposed but I have insinuated
Falk. And she received the insinuation favourbly
Bel.    Certainly.
Falk.    Then she did—
Bel.    No she didn't, she said nothing, but she
	did oh ! she did—
Falk.    What did she do ?
Bel.    Why smiled such a smile like "morn oe'r
	the east advancing.
Falk,    Perfectly satisfactory.
Bel.    Well, I must own, I am a little uneasy,
	but by persevering attention and unlimited
	profession will, I trust, at length —
Falk. Carry off the £10,000, eh ! in the mean-
time I can sympathize with you, I am in love,
under similar circumstances, with I lady of for-
tune, who, I believe regards me with a favour-
able eye, who, like your lady love sings like a
nightingale, looks like a fary, dances like a
zephyr, and sometimes frowns like a thunder-
storm, though for myeelf I like her all the better
for that she does so prettily, in fact, she is all
you described your lady, but ten times more
enchanting.
Bel. Impossible I mine is a perfect woman.

Falk.    And mine is a perfect angel.
Bel. Mine has all the charms of Venus; such a
	foot and ankle; oh! you should see her dance
	the Polka !
Falk. And mine has the charms of Venus, with
	those of Juna and Minerva into the bargain.
Bel.    But my adored has such a mind; she under-
stands Gree—that is, the alphabet, she thanks
she once read Locke on the understanding she
has thoroughly sifted the corn matter; she plays
Jullien's quadrills at the first sight and whist
like an old dowager of siventy.
Falk. But mine knows—oh ? I don't know what
	mine don't know.
Bel.    My beloved has such a name, so msuical.
Falk. Oh! if you talk of names, I am sure you
	can't surpass mine there, what think you of
	Charlotte Amelia Caroline Augusta Clara
	Georgina Kitz-Urse ?
Bel.    Say that name again.
Falk. Think you my lungs are onely moder-
	ately strong, I do not wish to exhaust them
Bel. Did you say Charlotte Amelia Caroline
	Augusta Clara Georgina Fitx-Urse.
Falk.    Yes! what's the matter ?
Bel. Why that is the lady I am paying address-
	es.
Falk. What, the lady that was ten time more
	angelie than mine? oh! impossible.
Bel.,    It is not onely possible but true.
Falk.    My dear Belcour surly you jest?
Bel.    No there is a boundry in jestiug wich on
	gentlemen ever passes, I was never more in
	earnest, that lady, I am determined,   shall
	become my wife.
Falk.    Determind! she may refuse you.
Bel.    Not so; for that which we have fixedly
	resolved happen, usually does, the daring
	man is always the successful one.
Falk.    Then hear me, Belcour ! that lady, I am
	resolved, shall, If possib e, become my wife;
I would sooner see her her coffin, of he stark
	and cold in my own (sent there by the hand
	of a friend) than that she shall be yours.

WILLIAM  SHEPHERD  PROPRIETOR,The Husband's Commandments.

1.  I am thy husband;  thou shalt have no other husband but me,
whom thou didst vow to love, honour, and obey; for I saved thee from
old-maidenism, and rescued thee from the terror of single blessedness.

2.  Thou shalt not look upon any other man, to love or to admire
him, for I thy husband, am a jealous husband, who will visit the sins
of the wife upon her followers; therefore, keep thou faithfully to thy
marriage vow.

3.  Thou shalt not backbite thy husband, nor speak lightly of him,
neither shald thou expose his faults to thy neighbour, lest he should
hear of it and punish thy perfidy by a deprivation of sundry items,
such as bonnets, dresses, &c.

4.  Remember the seventh day to keep it free from all unnecessary
labour;  for there are six days in which to do thy work.    Thou shalt
have thy house otean and tidy by four o'clock on Saturday afternoon;
and there shall be no washing of children or baking after that hour.
Thou shalt do thy marketing alone, lest in the company of other women
thou buyest ribbons for thyself, instead of cigars for thy husband.

5.  Honour thy husband's father and mother; and let not thy thoughts
wander selfishly towards their cupboard and pockets while so doing.

6.  Thou shalt not box thy children's ears,  nor  thump them for
plundering the sugar-pot, or running away with the pastry or jam;
for an hungry stomach knows no law save cut and run.

7.  Thou shalt not listen to flattery, nor accept gifts or trinkets
from any man save thy husband, who esteemest woman's purity her
greatest ornament.

8.  Thou shalt not rifle thy husband's pockets for coppers when he
is asleep; neither shalt thou read any letters thou mayst find, therein;
for it is his business to look after his own affairs, and thy business to
let his alone—ask no questions, but believe.

9.  Thou shalt conceal nothing from thy husband;  always speak the
truth,  and make no false representation of the state of thy pantry
and purse, for thy husband abhorreth petty larceny in the domestic
departmemt;   which shall be punished by closing the exchequer, till
such financial frauds are abolished.

10.  Look for no jewellery from thy husband on the anniversary of
thy wedding, for it is written, " Blessed are thy which expect nothing,
for they shall not be disappointed."

	L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.The Wife's Commandments.

1.  I am thy wife, and the sole mistress of thy house;  thou shalt
not have any other wife but me, whom thou didst vow to love and to
cherish.

2.  Thou shalt not interfere with the hire of thy housemaids, nor
take into thy dwelling any fair-faced image, to bow to her, or to smile
upon her ; for I am a jealous wife who would   visit the sins of her husband
upon himself, and show no mercy for such abominable conduct.

3.  Thou shalt not call thy wife careless nor extravagant, nor vainly
expect that she will take one sharp word without returning another.

4.  Remember the seventh day to stop at home and mind the house
and children while thy wife enjoys herself a little, for six days hath
she laboured, but will rest on the seventh.

5.  Thou shalt honour the father and! mother of thy wife,  in all
things, that it may be well for thee and the peace of thy house.

6. Thou shalt not fly into a passion with thy wife for the loss of
thy shirt buttons, nor find fault with her cooking of the dinner; neither
shalt thou abuse her for destroying thy pipes or cigars, for thy wife
abhorreth tobacco.

7.  There shall be no Platonic friendship between thee and any woman
under the sun; for I thy wife will not endure it.

8.  Thou shalt not go security for any man, nor deprive thy wife of
any requisite for the purpose of helping thy relatives or friends;
neither shalt thou withhold a secret from thy wife—those which are
thine must be hers also.

9.  Thou shalt not condemn thy wife's friends nor her neighbours,
nor grumble when she goes out, for I thy wife will not suffer it.

10.  Thou shalt not frequent the house of thy neighbour who is a
gamester or a publican, nor meddle with his brandy, nor his rum, nor
his whisky, nor anything that is behind his bar; neither shall thou stay
out later than nine o'clock at night,  lest thou should be led into
temptation; and to thy doors there shall be no latch-key.

	L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.A Full and Particular Account of that Funny and
Laughable WEDDING that took place in Cross-
causeway, Edimburgh, on Tuesday Evening, the
15th March 1815, between a young Dashing High-
land Lad, and a well known Old Lady of that place.

THE following' ludicrous circumstance excited an extraordinary
sensation in the crosscauseway and neighbourhood, on Tues-
day evening, the 15th March instant. It appears that a young,
blooming good looking lad, of the name of M'L------, a watchman
of' very captivating exterior, had, for a considerable period previous,
paid his addresses to a well known old Lady, a purifier of tripe, re-
siding in that place, (better known by another appelation, H----------
Mary, who at length yielded to his ardent and pressing suit, and
Tuesday was mutually fixed on for the celebration of their nuptials.

The fair enamorate, in order, as it would seem, to engratiate her-
self the more deeply into the good graces and favour of her future
Lord, impressed Twenty-five Sovereigns into his hands, in order,
she said, to make him appear very genteel on the occasion, and par-
ticularly to provide him with a new watch, a necessary appendage,
of course, to a gentleman. She also undertook to furnish a most
splendid marriage banquet, which was accordingly ordered, and to
which a gaeat number of the friends, relations and acquaintances of
both parties were formally invited.

Accordingly, at the appointed hour, the company assembled, in
their gayest apparel, among whom were a great many Knights of
the baton, in fine trim. The modest blooming bride appeared
among the astonished natives, dressed in eastern splendom and
magnificence, the very silk gown worn by her on this happy occa-
sion, like the Laird of Dumbiedykes' mother's gowns, would stand
its lane on the floor, it was so rich, and the other parts of her costly
dress corresponded with the gown. She continued to grace the
happy assemblage with her presence, for a considerable time after
the hour appointed, smiling sweetly to some, and courtseying mo-
destly to othsrs, in great good humour, of course, anxiously expect-
ing the arrival of her happy lover, to crown her wishes at the hymen-
eal altar.

The clergyman having arrived about this time, to which the now
most anxious and impatient bride was  introduced,  but there  was
still no word of Mr M'L-----.    The minister sat down beside the
bride, who encouraged her to hope, that her beloved partner would
soon make his appearance, and ease all her anxious doubts and fears,
which now became evident to the whole company. With some
pleasant chat. and the assistance of an occasional cordial glass now
and then, the reverend gentleman managed to prolong the pleasing
hopes of the arrival of the long expected bridegroom for several
hours after the time previously appointed ; but it was now become
pretty evident that Mr M'L------did not intend to make his appea-
rance at all, for he fairly absconded.

It appeared  that Mr M'L------had  adopted the notion, thac he
would exhibit his finery to much more advantage upon the Highland
hills, than on the streets of auld Reekie.

The chagrin of the disappointed bride was now awful in the ex-
treme but she could not still help but encourage the pleasing hope,
that the bewitched enchanting man would not deceive her yet.  It
turned out otherwise, however ; and the old lady fell into an awful
hysterical fit, from which a glass of gaod brandy was scarcely able
so recover her. At last, finding herself really abendoned, and that
the could not better herself, she allowed herself to be put into good
spirits again, by repeated applications of strong water. At her sug-
gestion, the party par-ook of their elegant and sumptuous supper,
consisting of every delicacy of the season, and the good old Lady
comforted herself for the loss of her false admirer, by repeated and
potent doses of Uisgebetha, mollified with  hot wateo and sugar,
after supper, the catgut scraper struck up a merry lilt, and they con-
tinued to trip it on the  light  fantastic toe till five o'clock in the
marning, when the bride went home, and she had to go to bed
again alone, which she reluctantly did, but still hoping that Mr
M'------would yet relict, and speedly return to the fond and longing
embrace of his dearly beloqed M——.A particular Account  of the comical-Wedding of &Mary
Ritchie, a YOUNG   MAId of 45, and Peter Murphy, a ,
lusty YOUTH of 73, which took place on Thursday last 
in a Village near Edinburgh, after being put off for two
Years, for fear of a family in the Time of Scarcity; —to
which is added an Account of a bloody Battle that was 
fought at the End of the Marriage Feast, with 4 List of
blue Eyes, bloody Noses, scratched Face, and damaged
Wigs, that appeared at the End of he Engagement.       

A Person at Edinburgh, in writing to an acquaintance
here, says—" It is my constant custom, when any
droll affair occurs in this part of the country, to give you
an account of it for your entertainment, although, I can-
   not help observing, you are at no pains- to return the com-
pliment.       

" Last week, according to promise, I went to dine with
a friend, who lives a few miles distant from this city. The
day was fine, and as I was in no great haste, I enjoyed my 
self in viewing the delightful prospect on every side, and the
beautiful appearance of the country in general. But just as
I got to the top of a steep hill that commands the view of 
a saug little village, near which my friend resides, I saw a
large assembly of men, women, and children, whose merry
gestures and loud exclamations soon raised my curiosity,and 
I quickened my pace to be a nearer spectator of the fun that
was going on in this merry assembly.

" When I came up to them I soon understood it was a
couple that had just been married, and were returning to the
village to celebrate the wedding; that their ages put toge-
ther amounted to 115; that the happy union had been post-
poned two years for fear of a family in the time of the dearth,
and had now been agreed to on account of the Meal falling
to 2s. a peck, and the great prospect of plenty.

"I communicated this agreeable information to my
friend, and, in the evening, away we went to the wedding,
which was held in a large barn. A ll expences attending this
merry meeting being defrayed by a regular contribution,
every body was welcome, and we soon got admittance—the 

fare was cheese, bread, beer, and whiskey in abundance.

It is impossible to describe the diversion that ensued when
the liquor began to operate—one group dancing—another 
scolding, and a third singing, every man his own song—
one roaring out Dainty Davie, a second Maggy Lauder, and
a third Lango Lee. In this scene of merriment and con-
fusion the bridegroom was no idle spectator- with all the
gayiety of twenty-one he entertained his ancient bride with
the song of

" Hey for a lass and a bottle to cheer",
" And a thumping banding every year."
"While she returned his favours with all the airs of blushing
Fifteen.—This was all very well, but the scenesoon changed

from mirth to madness.

" It seems two married women began to quarrel about 

the virtue of their daughters, when one threw a  mug of

beer in the other's face, which at the same time went into

another's bosom, and sprinkled an old crusty fellow who

was smoking his pipe—he suspecting a young fellow that

had been vexing him before, immediately threw the con-

tents of the jug that stood next him in his face, which Wet

every person near him-over went the table—out went the

lights, and a general battle ensued—candlesticks, jugs, hats,

wigs, caps, and handkerchiefs were flying in every direction,

     —the young girls squeeling—the men swearing, and the

Old women crying murder:—When this affair was over and

lights procured, it is impossible to describe the appearance

of the company—but such a number of bald heads, bloody

noses, bare necks, and scratched faces, I never beheld."

T. Duncan, Printer, Saltmarket.Dandy Bewitched

A copy of a Love Letter from a Dandy Clerk, in
this city, to a well known Mauntamaker, wherein he
depones by his beben tuckers, (which he declares
to be the finest of cambric) that he loves her above
all the Rules of Arithmetic.

Dear Exquisite,
		Please accept from a dispairing Dandy, a
few lines, the sentiments of which, breathes his regard to thy
neat, neat little person. Always since I saw thee, at the Botanic
Gardens with Miss R........ the thoughts of thee, are my con-
stant companion. I am perplexed about thee in such a manner
that I think I am bewitched. I think it would be no pain in the
frostiest night in winter to sit on a cold stone and shiver to
death for thee. Thou art my constant attendent. In bed I
dream of thee, and at my desk the blunders in the Waste-Book,
tells who is present. But I prize thee above all the rules of
Arithmetic.

		Dearest, the other day in St Mary's Wynd, as
I passed through it, I purchased a pair of second-hand Wel-
ington's, that I got for five-and-sixpence, I had no money but the
Broker seeing my genteel appearance, was kind enough to trust
me. They are very high in the beel, and I have been practising
myself in the most fashionable way of walking on the heel,
which in a great measure will hide the effect of my plain soles.
I have got a pair of second-hand stays; and yesterday, I went to
my tailor, (who never refused to trust me) and ordered a suit of
new clothes, and told him to put false brands in my trowsers,
which he assured me that he would do in the neatest manner
and to have them on Saturday night. So, that on Sunday you
will much oblige your lover if you will be in readiness by eleven
o'clock, to ride out with me, not in one of these hackneys which
I cannot endure, every person reading the owner's name, under
the window, but I shall look out for an exquisite Carricle, when
as we ride we shall be taken for quality, which we really are, go-
ing to visit their property in the country.

		P. S. I expect that you will favour your lover,
by the 15th of the month with your definitive answer inclosed
in a valintine, containing the portrait of your neat little person,
and you know who else, and then I will sing you the little song.

Of dandyship I sing, for you know its just the thing,
Yes, you know its just the thing to recommend you, O,
In the carricle we'll ride, and the sutty poor deride,
That we'll make support our pride to act the dandy, O,

No more at present, but remains,

Dearest,

your dispairing Dandy

JOHN SLINK.