'An Account of the Trial of ROBERT FERGUSON,  before the Circuit Court of Jus-

ticiary at Inverness, which was opened on the 15th of September,  1812, for the wilful

Murder of CAPTAIN CHARLES MONRO, of  his Majesty's 42d Regiment, and for

which crime he is to be executed at Inverness, on Friday the 30th of October next, and his

Body given for Dissection.

THE Circuit Court of Justiciary com-
menced sitting at Inverness on Tuesday
the  15th  of September,   1812, before the
Right Hon. the Lord Justice Clerk, and
Lord Hermand.

Robert Ferguson, indicted for the wilful
murder of Captain Charles Monro,some time
of his Majesty's 42d Regiment of Foot, was
brought to the bar. On the diet being
called, the prisoner's Counsel craved an ad-
journment to the following day, in order that
certain witnesses to be adduced in exculpa-
tion, and not yet arrived, might have time
to come up. The Court delayed the trial,
in order that the prisoner might lose no ad-
vantage which the testimony of these wit-
nesses could afford him.

On Wednesday, Robert Ferguson was a-
gain brought to the bar, and the following
written defence lodged for him:—"Denies
the murder, but acknowledges the slaughter,
by a knife held up in self-defence." The libel
having been found relevant, and remitted
to an Affize, the following witnesses were ad-
duced in support of the prosecution:—

George M'Donald, Surgeon in Cromarty,
was called upon to see the deceased on the 2d
of June last. The Doctor found him in bed,
in the house of George Thomson, a cart-
wright in Chapeltown. On uncovering his
body, the witness found a wound penetrat-
ing the left side of the cavity of the belly,
about three inches in length, and a great
quantity of the small intestines protruded—
the outer coat of part of the intestines being
partially cut. On examining the wound,
the witness immediately considered it to be
mortal, not only from the quantity of in-
testines which had been protruded, but from
the dark and inflamed colour of the whole.
The witness lost no time in returning the in-
testines, but, owing to the narrowness of the
incision in the muscular substance, in pro-
portion to the quantity of intestines protrud-
ed, he was under the necessity of enlarging
the wound before they could possibly be re
turned. The deceased gave the witness no
other account of his misfortune than that the
wound had been inflicted by a knife; that all
the provocation he gave was taking the man
by the collar of the coat, and attempting to
turn him out of Thomson's shop—adding,
that " he wished he had fallen in the field of
battle," Captain Monro died about eight
o'clock the following evening, and witness
is of opinion that his death was occasioned
by inflammation and consequent mortifica-
tion; nor does he believe that although sur-


gical assistance had been instantly afforded to
the deceased, his-life could have been saved,
owing to the extent of membrane which had
been wounded and exposed.

George Home, apprentice to Geo. Thom-
son, black-smith at Chapeltown, was on the
2d of June last in his master's shop. The
deceased came into the smithy about five in
the evening; Pannel entered soon after; the
witness heard Ferguson and the deceased
swearing at each other; heard the Pannel call
Captain Monro a d-—d b——r, on which
the Captain pushed him out of the smithy.
Pannel soon after returned, and came for-
ward as if to attack the Captain, who de-
fended himself with a switch he held in his
hand. Pannel followed him close, and struck
him with a knife, on which the deceased im-
mediately called out, " I'm gone, take hold
of the man." Pannel went and stood with-
out the door, and Capt. Monro followed,
hold ing in his intestines with his hands, and
again called out, " Why do you not seize
the murderer?" Pannel was thrown down,
and the knife taken from him, and, on being
held fast, he offered to go willingly with wit-
ness to a neighbouring Justice. The deceas-
ed was in the mean time taken into Thomson's
house by Mrs. Thomson, and put to bed,—-
On the way to the Justice of Peace, in cus-
tody of this witness and his fellow workman,
he suddenly stopped and refused to go further
without a warrant, threatening to use any man
who should offer to seize or detain him as he
had done the deceased.

Alexander Munro, corroborated the tes-
timony of George Home; said the Pannel
stabbed the Captain twice.

Mrs. Thomson was called out of her house
when the accident happened. Saw Captain
Monro standing near the door of the smithy,
holding his hands to the wound; she helped
him into the house and put him to bed. He
said, some time after, " I did not think the
man would have done this to me; God knows
I would not have done it to him; we had but
a few words, and I only put my hand to the
back of his neck to throw him out for giving
me insolent language."

John Home, in exculpation, deponed that
Capt. Monro " was a warm hearted man,
but rather rash when any thing vexed him."

The evidence being summed up, Lord
Hermand charged the Jury, who returned
a verdict, finding the Pannel Guilty. He was
sentenced to be hanged at Inverness, on Fri-
day 3oth October next, and his body given
for dissection.

T. Duncan, Printer,  Saltmarket, Glasgow,SECOND   EDITON.
CASE OF SUPPOSED 

       

        MURDER

  OF a CHILD.

Full, True, and particular account of
the   apprehension   of  that   unfortunate

young woman, on the charge of killing
her own intant child, which was found
dead is a coal cellar, on Friday last, in
Heward Place ; also an account of her
commitment to the Calton Jail, to await
her tried for the alleged Murder.

Taken from this day's North Briton.
Yesterday a well dressed looking woman was
brought to the Police office on a charge of having
bean concerned in the death of her female child,
which was born on the morning previous. The
wretohed creature, we are informed, had con-
cealed her pregnancy, but the body of the child
having been discovered in the coal cellar, led to
her immediate apprehension. However the guilt
at innecence of the mother may be proved, after
investigation into this mysterious affair we cannot
help considering the extreme haste on the part of
authorities in her hasty removal after delivery, as
bordering inhumanity. A watchman might have
been stationed at her resinence, at no great expence
to the public, until a decent time bad been affor-
ded for her recovery ; and we do not think, the ends
of justice or humanity will be forwarded if this
poor creatore pays the forfeit of her life to satisfy
the " law's delay," in arriving at what may per-
haps turn out to be the case of a still-born child
FURTHER PARTicULArS—We have seen the
different Edinburgh Newspapers of to day, but
none of them furnish us with any further accounts
 of this lementable case. We understand that the
unfortunate young woman was a servant in one
of the Crescents in the New Town From the weak
ness of her present Situation, no examination has yet
taken place, but likely we will be able to give a
lengthened account on Monday.

SECOND EDITION.

(Taken from this morning's Caledonian; Mercury,
February 13.)



We understand that the article in the North
Briton of Saturday last, regarding a servant girl
 who had been delivere of a child in Howard Place,
is in some respects incorrect. The Police never
heard of nor saw her till she was brought to the
head office in a carriage by order of her master
in charge of a constable.

No person, we believe, of whatever description,
is removed to the police office, if complaining,
without first being examined by the medical of-
ficer of the establishment. In the case alluded to,
very marked attention was paid to this unfortun-
ate creature, both as to proper food, bedding, and
a well heated room.

She was removed last night to the Calton Jail
for trial.

TRIAL,

and sentence

An account of the trial and Sen-
 tence of Andrew Ewart, for  the
murder of Henry Pennycook,
in the Church yard of Libber-
ton on-the 4th December last,
and who is to be executed at
Edinburgh on the 19thday of
March next.

This day Monday 11th February, came on the
Trial before the High Court of Justiciary of Andrew
Ewart, for firing a guu loaded with swan shot, on the
morning of Wednesday the 5th December last, within
the Church-yard of Libberton, and wounding Henry
Penaycuick in the right arm, whereby he lingered
till the 8th of the same month, when he died.

The-substance of the evidence was that the &,.
ceased and the prisoner were, along with others in
the watch-house of the church, yard of Libberton, on,
Tuesday evening the 4th day of December last.

They were so earnestly occupied in conversation of
what took in the church yard on the Monday pre
ceding, when the watchman of that night approhand-
ed a body-snatcher in the act of opening the grave,
that they did not observe the deceased, leave them-
Shortly afterwards he was followed by another, who.
observing a dusky figure standing at the end of the
watchhouse, hastily returned, and gave an alarm that
another resurrection man was in the yard. Firmly
impressed with this idea, he snatched up a loaded gun,
ran to the door, and instantly levelled it at the sup-
posed intruder, who pacifically said, ' Sorely you'l
not shoot me ? but the words had scarcely escaped
his lips ere he received the contents in his arm. It
was then too late, discovered that the unfortunate
man was Pennycuick; and that a friends life had
been sacrificed instead of that of a sacrilegious depre-
dator....Pennycuick died on the Saturday following,

Tee public Broseestor addressed the Jury at great
length, which was ably answered by the Prisoners
council.     The   jury .'then .retired   and  in a few
minutes raturned  verdict of Guilty, but strongly re-
commended the prisoner to mercy.

The Lord Justice clerk after addressing the prison-
er sentenced him to be executed at Edinburgh, on
Wednesday, 19th of March next.
The prisoner is a decent looking man, appeared to
be very very, much affected when the awful sentence
of death  prohounced against him.                            TRIAL

                                   AND 

 SENTENCE.



A full and Particular Account of the
Trial and Sentence of ANDREW EWART,
who is to be Executed at Edinburgh,
on Wednesday the 19th March next,
for Murder, and his Body to be given
for Public Dissection.

At Edinburgh, on Monday the 11th  February,
1828, came on, before the High Court of Justiciary,
the trial of Andrew Ewart, labourer, lately residing
at Broken Bridge, in the parish of Libberton, and
county of Edinburgh; accused of having," on the
night of the 4th of December, 1827, or, on the
morning of the 5th, wi thin or near the church-yard
of the parish of Libberton, and county of Edin-
burgh, wickedly and feloniously discharge a gun,
loaded with powder and swan shot or slugs at
Henry Pennycook, weaver, formerly residing at
Libbetton aforesaid,now deceased; and the shot or
slugs from the said gun did immediately enter the
right arm or right shoulder of the said Henry Pen-
nyeook, by which be was severely and mortally
wounded, and continued to languish until the 8th
day of the said month of December, or about that
time, when he died in consequence of the wounds
that inflicted, and was thereby murdered." To
which the pannel pled not guilty.           

The circumstances of the case were shortly these:
The prisoner, along with several others, happened
to be in the watch-house, on Tuesday evening, the
4th December, and went to take a turn round the
church-yard at Libberton, on the night libelled on,
from which a body had been attempted to be raised
the week before ,and some of his companions
thinking he had been rather long out, two of them
proceeded to look for him but,the one going be-
fore the other, they accidentally took opposite di-
rections. The night was cloudy, and windy,with
some lightning, and as Ewart was turning a cornor
at the church, the deceased Pennycuik approached
him. Ewart, believing the deceased to be a resur-
rectinest, called out to him three different times,
and, receiving no answer, fired at him; but, just
as the shot went off, Pennycook said, " Andrew,
you'll no shoot me, and fell.

There WAS no malice air ill-will, nor any pre-
meditated intention of injury, in any sense of the
word, alleged against the pannel, but the Solicitor-
General mantained, that it was illegal to use fire-
arms in watching a church-yard, consequently to
shoot a man, on the supposition he was a resurret-
rionest, was murder. This view of the law was
supported by the unanimous opinion of the court.
The Jury, therefore, by a large majority, found the
pannel guilty of murder, but unanimously recom-
mended him to mercy.

The preciding Judge, Lord Gillies, after a so-
lemn address, sentenced Ewart to Executed at
Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 19th March next,
at the usual place of execution, and his body to be
delivered for dissection.

The prisoner is a decent looking man, and ap-.
peared to be very much affected when the awful
sentence of death was pronounced against him.

WATCHING CHURCHYARDS—The melancholy acci-
dent which lately occurred in Libberton Church yard, when
a man was mortally wounded by one of the watchmen, who
took him for a resurrectionist will not, we trust, be allow  

ed. to pass without a strict scrutiny into all the circumsatan-

ces connected with it. Much as we detest the practice of
raising dead bodies, and anxious as we are that proper
measures were adopted for putting an end to this gross and
constantly reiterated outrage against the best feeling, of our
nature, we cannot imagine a greater evil to flow from it than
that the people should take the law into their own hands, 

and proceed without ceremony to would, maim, or kill

persons found trespassing at night within the en-
en-closures of a church-yard. This we strongly  urged in
a late article on the violation of sepulchres, pre-
dicting that if, unchecked, it would soon lead to a state
of things repugnant to the very first principles upon which
society is founded. At the same time, it is evidently illegal
to put loaded fire-arms into the hands of persons employed
to watch church-yards, and thereby expose not merely re-
surrectionists, but innocent and unoffending individuals to
be shot, when the clown who is thus armed, causes to fancy
himself warranted in tiring. The practice we know has
been winked at with a view of deterring resurrection-

ists from  prosecuting their nefarious trade; but the 

remedy is worse than the evil it was meant to prevent;  

and it is high time that a decisive check were given to
it. Suppose a resurrectionist is caught  in the fact, we
know of no law or principle which will warrant his be-
ing shot dead or grievously wounded on the spot : and
we have a striking instance before us of the mischief
and danger that may ensue from entrusting fire-arms to
persons whom fear, folly, or drunkenness may preci-
pitate into the commission of acts lit le short of murder__

When the accident occurred at Libberton ail the parties
were, we understand, in a state of intoxication ; and the
unhappy man who met his death was frisking about among
the grave-stones, for the purpose of frightening the watch-
men. But this, so far from extenuating, aggravates the
criminality of the act by which that individual met his
death ; and justice will not be done If the person who fired
be not called before a jury of his country to answer to a
charge of culpable homicide.Trial & Sentence


A Full and Particular Account of the
Trial and Sentence of JAMES DAL.
RYMPLE, for the Horrid and Cruel
Murder of DONALD FRASER, Labourer,
on Sunday the 23d February last, on
the road near Linlithgow, by Shooting
him, and who is to be Executed on
Wednesday the 3d June, 1840.

Edinburgh, 13th May 1840.—The trial of James
Dalrymple came on here before the High Court of
Justiciary, this day, accused of the murder of Don-
ald Fraser, labourer, on Sunday the 23d day of
February last, in so far as, " on the road leading
from Linlithgow to Queensferry by the Burgh-
muir and Hoptoun-wood toll-bars, in the county
of Linlithgow, and within 300 yards of the said
Burgh-muir toll-bar to the west thereof, or between
the said Burgh-muir toll-bar and Burgh-muir farm-
house, situated on or near to the said road, and now
or lately occupied by John Jamieson, farmer, you
the said James Dalrymple did wickedly and felon-
iously discharge a gun or fowling-piece loaded with
gun-powder, and with leaden shot or pellets, or
some other hard substances to the Prosecuter un-
known, at Donald Fraser, labourer, then or lately
before residing with Duncan Macfarlane, publican,
then and now or lately residing in or near Linlith-
gow, and the said shot or pellets, or part thereof,
having struck the said Donald Fraser on or near
his neck, left side, and back, or other parts of his
person, he was thereby mortally wounded, and
immediately or very soon thereafter expired, and
was thus murdered by you the said James Dal-
rymple." To which he pled Not Guilty.

Several witnesses were then examined in support
of the charge, whose evidence distinctly described
the circumstances of the case.

Exculpatory evidence was called to prove the
disorderly conduct of several Individuals speaking
the Gaelic language on the same roan on the night
libelled; as also the uniform good character and
peaceable disposition of the pannel.

The Jury were then addressed by Counsel for
the Crown, contending that whatever might be their
feelings for the pannel in this case, they were bound
to find against him a verdict of murder ss laid in
the indictment. Mr P. Robertson, at grert length,
followed for the pannel, holding they were entitled
to bring it in only as Culpable Homicide.

Lord Meadowbank then went over the whole
evidence, and explained the bearings of the law in
such cases. The Jury after a short consultation,
returned with a verdict finding the pannel Guilty
as libelled, by a majority of three, but unanimous-
ly and strongly recommending him to mercy. He
was then sentenced to be Executed at the usual
place of Execution, in the Lawnmarket, on Wed-
nesday the 3d of June, 1840.

Menzies, Printer, Bank Street.  TRIAL OF A

PRIEST

A wonderful trial of a Priest for the horrid and cruel mur-
         der of a young Lady, (whom he had seduced,) and her
         Mother, after robbing   them of an  immense fortune ;
with an account of other five girls whom he had be-
trayed all of whom he privately married ; with his ad-
dress to   the  judges    in  mitigation   of   punishment
for his horrid crimes; The trial lasted near four years.

TAKEN FROM THE SUN OF SATURDAY THE 5th. SEPTEMBER, 1829.

A trial for murder of a very singular and horrible crime, before the Su-
preme Criminal Court in Bavaria, has just terminated. The trial occupi-
ed no less than four years, and the pleadings and documents amounted to
forty two volumes, the criminal was examined one hundred times, and it
was only at the last examination that a confession of his guilt was wrung
from him. Riembaur the criminal was born in the lowest rank, but at
a very early age gave marks of an intellect of a superior order, Riem-
bur was born in 1770, in 1795 he was ordained a priest, in 1808 he was
appointed a curate of Priell, and in 1809 he was promoted to the curacy
of Randersdt. His sermons were eloquent; his denounciations of vice
severe and frequent. It is not wonderful that so accomplished and gifted
as he was, with the addition of an elegant person, he should be looked
on as a saint of the fire water. The crimes for which this monster was
tried, were chiefly incontinency. He had a child by the curate of Hus-
kerchen's cook-maid, a second by the curate of Hernsheim's servant, a
third by a milliner of his acquaintance, a fourth by another servant-maid
a fifth by Madame Frauenkneicht, whose father he swindled out of five
thousand Florins, and whom, together with her mother, he poisoned ,
and lastly, he had several children by his last kitchen-maid. The crime
for which he was at length arrested was the murder of Anne Marie Ei-
chlaetter. Whilst in the act of cutting the unhappy girls  throat, her
youngest sister happened to peep through the key-hole, and observed
the unhuman monster bloody actions, he would have been denounced
long before, but he threatened to commit suicide, and induced the mo-
ther to bury the transaction in silence. Shortly alter the murder they
 both fell sick, and died, from the effects of poison administered by the
priest. In his address to the Judge he admits of all the charges brought
against him, and that he privately married them all at the alter, for the
purpose of quelling their consciences. He also defended himself, with
saying that the end sanctifies the means. He said that before killing
 his victims, he generally exhorted them to repent of their sins, and gave
them absolution. This holy ruffian has been condemned to imprison-

 ment for an unlimited period.

                                                        Carmichael &Graham, Printers, 43, Trongate.TRIALS FOR RAPE, &C.
of

      D. DOBIE,  J. THOMSON, AND D. BERTIE,
 BEFORE THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.—July 12 and 14.

A full. true. and particular /account of the
Trial  of, and Sentence upon, the great
Gilmerton Criminals, David Dobie and
John Thomson, for the Violation, Robbery,
and Murder of Margaret Paterson, in a way
so cruel. barbarous, and inhuman, as makes
the aeart of the roost obdurate melt with pi-
ty, and the very blood freeze with horror.
Together Mother with the Indictment against the

Prisoners,    the   names    and    evidence  of
the   principal witnesses. and  an  inventory

of the articles produced on the Trial, con-
sistung amongst other things, of the un
\ill\ of and murderous implements by
which poor Margaret Paterson's destruction
was accomplished. And also the Speeches.
word for word, of Lord Meadowbank and
the Lord Justice Clerk, and the behaviour

of Murderers in the Lock up house, and
in the Condemned Cell.

And Likewise, a full true, and particular
Account of the Trial of Mr Bertie, writer,
for an alleged Rape on the body of Mar-
garet Gray, a Girl of thirteen years of 

age.

TRIAL OF DOBIE AND THOMSON.

The indictment of the Prisoners was read.
After the customary preamble, it went on at
follows.

That albeit, by the laws of this and every
other weil governed realm, Rape ; as also As-
sault, more especially when committed with
intent to Ravish; as also Murder ; as also
Robbery ; are crimes of an heinous nature, and
severely punishable : yet true it is and of ve-
rity. that you the said John Thomson and
Divid Dobie are both and each, or one or
after of you, guilty &c, in so far as,
the Receased Margaret Paterson, having,
on the 17th day of April, 1830 met with
you the said John Thomson and David

Dubie, or one or other of you, within the house at
\ill\ bank or Cellar Park, in the parish of Libberton
and shire afore\ill\aid, &c and you the said John
Thomson and david Doble. or one or other of you.
having agreed to \ill\ the said dre\ill\ Margaret
Peterson to the said village of Gilmert\ill\ ; and the said
\ill\ Margaret Paterson having accordingly left the
\ill\ house, and having pro\ill\edad in company with you,
or \ill\ or other of you, along the road leading from the
said house to the village of Gilmerton a or said, &c.
you the said John Thom\ill\on and David Dobie,
and, time aforesaid, &c., wickedly and seloniously
\ill\  and assault the said deceased Margaret
Paterson. and did both and each. or our of other of
you — Here the indietment particularly specitied the
\ill\ charge,  viz., that of the prisoners having wiekedly
and  \ill\ oniously violated the person of Margaret Pater-
son. which it would be itnproper more partieularly to
\ill\. The indictment then went on to vary the
\ill\oarge in the usual way, by charging an assault with
\ill\ to Ravish.] L\ill\KEAS, you the said John
Thomson and David Dobie did, both and each. or one
or other of you, time aforesaid, at of near the part of
the \ill\. &c. &c, wickedly und feloniously attack and
\ill\auit the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did
strike ber several \ill\evere blows with your fists, and kick
her on the head and sides, and other parts of her body,
wheretiy she was reddered insensible, and did—[Here
agaist the words of the indictmeut are untie fur publica
\ill\ They describa particularly the soul harrowing
\ill\ of the monstera, in forcing into the body of
their already brutally maltreated and insensible victim.
\ill\ tough cornered pirees of stone ! a number of
\ill\ of stuall coal ! a quautity of coal dust ! a quan-
tity of hay ! and the bone of the corsets of the de.
\ill\ or some other just instrument to the Prosecutor
\ill\ ! And having mentioned the dreadful lacera,
tions  and wounds thus produced, the Indietment went
\ill\ !—Of the injumes so indicted, or of one or other of
them, the said deceased Margaret Paterson langisha of
till her death, which took place in the house in A was
\ill\ aforesaid, then and now or lately acenpied by the
said William Paterson, her father on the 224 day of
April. 1830 ; and the said decessed Margret Paterson
was thus \ill\uelly murdered by you tor said John Thom-
son and David Dobie, or by one or other of you :
LIKFAS, you then said John Thomson and U ri1
\ill\ did. both and each, or one or other of you, time 
atoresaid, &c. &c:. wickedly ami suloujously rob the said
isceased Margret Paterson, and did take from her by
\ill\ and vtolence, a gold ear ring a small tiu box, two
\ill\, tickets for grown, one pledged for 3a. 6d. and the
\ill\ for to the more particuler description of the said
dawn tickets being to the prosecutor unknown, three
said \ill\ and sixpence or thereby in silver meuey, \ill\
\ill\ cotton or mus\ill\ handkerchief, a green staw. 
\ill\  tower, some pieces of card or p\ill\stehostd and
\ill\ pieces of bread and meat. being all the property
\ill\ in the awful possession of the said devessed Mar
garet Paterson :-

Inventory of Articles Prodused in Court.

A green shawl, a woman's bonnet, 4 small
un box. a gold ear.ring, a key, a handkerchief,
a coarse towel, three angulzar pieces of stone,
a small quantity of hay, a corset stick; a pair
of soissors, a woman's pocket.

When the prisoners were brought oat of
jail to be conveyed over to the Lock up house,
Dobie recognized a person whom the had
known, and said to him. ' This is an awfu'
condition for me to be brocht till.'—' It is,
Dobie.' was the the reply.—to which he rejoined,
' Weel : — I'm as innocent as the child that's 
a born :' Thomson said nothing. Both the
men were rather meanly, but decently and
cleanly dressed : and had the usual appear-
ance of carters in their Sunday clothes that
had already b-en well worn. Both are of slen-
der but. athletic make — Thomson about 5 ft.
10 in. high.

The declarations emitted by the  prisonars
were of great length, and chiefly consisted   of
rambling, inconsistent, and unimportant stale.
   ments.

Colin Pentland and his wife were called to

prove the accidental meeting of the deceased

  and the prisoners at their house on the night

of the 17th of April, and their subsequent de-

parture together, with the carts for Gilmerton.

Walter Dingwall, residing at Gilmerton, was
called to prove that Thomson's horse had
brought his cart into the village of Gilmerton
without his master. This witness, and the
wife of one Bamherry, a slater in Gilmerton,
and others found the shawl of the deaeased,
her bundle of bread, &c., in Thomson s cart.

Alexander Denham and a young man named
Wright, and others in consequence of Thom-
son being missing, set off on the road to Edin-
burgh in search of him. On their return, they
were attracted by the groans of the deceased
to the spot where she was lying, near the
third milestone ; and finding her to be in a
very deplorable state, they carried her to the
house of Bamberry, into which she was hu-
manely received. In mean time, a person
had met Thomson coming into the village, and
had said to him, from the circumstance of the
shawl being found in the cart, ' You have had
a woman with you to-night.' To which he
replied, 'Yes, she's juist belrin me.'

Drs Renton and Morrison, of Dalkeilh,
proved the frightful nature of the injuries in-
flicted on the deceased, - her extreme suffer-
ings,—her death in consequence of those in-
juries,— the appearances of the truly horrid
and shocking lacerations and wounds and the
consequent mortification, after death,— and
also the finding of the stones, &c. within the
body of the ill-fated woman.—The same Gen-
tlemen also, and other witnesses proved that
the deceased had declared, while in the pros-
pect of death, that both the prisoners had
committed the crimes to which she fell a \ill\

Several witnesses from Greenend and other
places proved that the prisoners had made
their treatment of the deceased a subject of
ribald jest and boasting to their companions,

The tin box, belonging to the deceased was
traced to the possession of Dobie ; and her
handkerchief was taken from Thomson's
pocket, when he was apprehended.

The Lord justice Clerk, in discharging the
Jury, stated that the verdict which they had
returned was perfectly consonant with the
opinions entertained by the Court. Sentence
was then moved for.

Lord Meadowbank—My Lord Justice
Clerk—It is little more than eighteen months
ago that the melancholy duty devolved on me
to propose sentence of death on a pannel con-
vi ted before you of a crime at that time con-
sidered almost unparalleled in atrocity. The
utmost stretch of our imagination then did not
lead us to anticipate the psosibility, that there
were living in the midst of civilized society men
who could be guilty of still greater atrocities
—of more unparalleled brutality—revolting
to every feeling that actuates the mind of man.
I am perfectly certain that, were the details
of this case unfortunately made public, as,
thank God, the power of the law has enabled
you to prevent, those details would have ex
cited such feelings in this Christian communi-
ty as never were before excited. It is hardly
possible to imagine that persons would have
been found living in this Christian land who
could have brought their minds to the com-
mision of such atrocious crimes Melancholy
it is to think that, had this unprotected female
been wandering the world amongst the most
barbarous people, she would have been in a
state of comparative safety to what she was
within three miles of the metropolis of this
most civilized country ; such is the fact that

this poor unhappy woman, after having fallen
into the hands of these abandoned men, was
treated in a manner which, of necessity, was
to produce death —she was robbed of the mis-
erable pittance which she had in her posses
sion ; and this was committed on a person on
whom they had the intention to satisfy other
brutal passions. This is the worst feature of
the case. 1 have not words to express the
feelings which the detail* of this day have
necessarily excited in my bosom. I have al-
luded to them generally, and shall only far-
ther allude to them by saying, that I think it
was impossible for any human being, who
heard the evidence, to entertain a doubt of
the perfect propriety of the verdict which has
been returned. With these observations, I
have now simply to propose to your Lordship
to pronounce the sentence of the law, which
is that of death, and that it shall be carried
into effect on Wednesday the 18th of August
nest.

The Lord Justice Clerk—John Thomson
and David Dobie, you have heard the verdict
which has been recorded, and the opinions
which their lordships entertain in regard to
your case as exhibited in evidence against you ;
and following their example, — feeling that no
words which I can use are capable of descris-
ing the unparalleled brutality, cruelty, and
wickedness, of the foul transaction which has
been disclosed this day. I shall not enter into
details farther than to remark that the exhi-
bition you have made is calculated to make
every man blush. Such wickedness and brutal
abomination could not have been believed to
have been committed, had it not been sworn
to in evidence. Following the principle of law,
by which the proceedings ha\ill\e been conduct-
ed with closed doors till this stage of the pro-
ceedings, I shall refrain from saying any thing
of the crimes of which you stand convicted on
the clearest evidence ever produced before a
jury. But it is my duty to warn you to pre-
pare for the inevitable fate which awaits you
in this world : and I warn you, in the most
earnest manner, to prepare to appear before
the judgment seat of the Almighty, to answer
for all the deed, done in the body. Rest as-
sured that if ever there was a case in which
the law will take it, full course it is yours.
You are now to consider that your days on
earth are numbered, and that you have no v
no other duty in the world but to pray Cor
forgiveness of all your elines—to humb'e
yourselves at the footstoal of your Creator.
Do not lose a single moment in setting about
heartfelt repentance—and God grant that it
may be sincere,—-and that forgiveness be ex-
tended to you for your crimes. His Lordship
then sentenced the pannels to be executed at
\ill\ dinburgh. on the 18th August and their.
bodies given to Dr Monro, professor of ana-
tomy, for dissection.

Dobie addressed the Lord Justice Clerk in
in these words,  My Lord. I have one thing to
say, if you please. —They cannot dissed the

soul."

On the way from the Court to the Lock
up hou e. both the prisoners maintained the
same appearance AS they had done throughout
the trial —that is to say, there was a restless
recklessness in Dobie's movements and in the
expression of his counteaance. while Thomson
was collected, silent, and seemingly quite
passive in the hands of \ill\ conductors. There
was, however, an occasional quivering of his
person, an i a solemn tionghtful expression
on his pallid coantenarece, which indicated
that he felt more than he wished should be
observed by the spectators.

Until the evidence had been all gone
through, Dobie indulged a hope of being ac-
quitted ; for he had adooted means for secur-
ing, as he thought, evidence in his favour.
While he was in the jail, he wrote a latter to
one of his cousins, a fenale residing in G.I-
merton. instrucing her to swear that she had
seen Thomson give him the tin box belonging
to Margaret Paterson : and this would have
accounted for one of he stronger. \ill\ circun-
stances against him. The letter, however,
never reached the handsof the woman. It was
intercepted, and given to the Sheriff, who
sent for the female, am by an interrogatory
ascertained that this was an attempt to suborn
a witness, and consequently frustrated it. it
was perhaps for the same reason that several

persons from Gilmerton, who were in the list
of witnesses, were not Called to give their
evidence for the Crown, as it was probable,
from their intimacy with the prisoners, and
other circumstances, that Dobie might have
been, tampering with them also.

In the Lock-up house, Dobie said that
some of the witnesses had sworn falsely; but
this was chiefly in reference to the amount of
silver that the poor murdrred woman had had
in her possession.

At seven o'clock in the morning, the pri-
soners were placed in the usual carriage to
be conveyed back to the jail, After they had
taken their seats, a tear or two were observed
in the eyes of Thomson. Dobie wept plenti-
fully, and lamented for his wife and children.
(He had sent a sixpence to his wife while the
trial was going on, the day before, by one of
the witnesses. )—Thomson soon assumed his
usual appearance of indifference. He fre.
quently looked at the people through the car-
riage, and remarked that it was ' a tine morn-
ing

When they got into the condemned cell,
Dobie said to Thomson, If the woman had
been in my cairt, Jock, \ill\ ething o' this wud
hae happened. The woman was a murdered
woman, —there's nae doot o' that ! But hoo
thae, stanes an' hay an' things cam' a boot,
(he added with an oath) I dinna ken.' Thom-
son made no answer to all this, which must
be regarded as a confession by Dobie that he
was concerned in the croaes, though not in
the worst of them ; and Thomson's silence
was a still stronger though tacit admission of
the full measure of his \ill\ guilt.—particularly
as neither of the prisoners made one single
complaint of the justice of their sentence.
Dobie spoke often of his wife and children,
for whom he lamcnted the disgrace he had
brought on them, and he expressed his hope
that his mother and his wife would be admit-
ted to see him Thomson never once opened
his mouth Dobie put an end to the scene.
by saying, ' Come, bring as thae class (mean-
ing the prison dress;) \ill\ let's pit aft thir
yins.' The behaviour of the men, since, has
been firm, and becoming their situation.

The Gilmerton \ill\--Dobie and Thom-
son are now confined in the same cell, and are
attended by the Rev. Dr Lee. Since their
condemnation they have been very quiet, not
a word of reflection, bus proceeded from one
against the other. They are bath compara-
tively illiterate and ignorant. Dobie can read
and write, and Thomson is able to read, but
i: would appear they have derived little or no
advantage from these acquirements.

The awful nature of his situation, from the
\ill\, male a deep impression on Thomson's
mind Since he was indicted he has been very
dull ;  and has become spire in his person.—
His coedemnation has had a still greater effect
on his spirits, as he appears at times quite ab-
stracted and lost in meditation, while at other
times he is restless and un easy.— Obserrer.

TRIAL OF   D. BERTIE.

The Indictment, after commencing in the
usual ferm, set forth That albeit, by the laws
of this and every other well governed realm,
Rape is a crime of an heinous nature and
severely punishable : yet, true it was and of
verity, that David Bertie, the prisoner at the
bar, was guilty of the same, he having, on the
10 th day of May last, in a house situated in
East Cumberland-street, then in the occupa-
tion of Mrs Jane Skirving, and in a room in
the said house, which he (the prisoner) occu-
pied as a lodger, wickedly solicited Margaret
Gray, servant to the siad Jane Skirving, and
on her rejecting his solicitations, did attack
her with force and violence in the said room,
— and that on the said Margaret Gray getting
away from him, he did some time afterwards
in the passage of the said house, again attack
the -aid Margaret Gray, and did seize her by
the arm and forcibly drag her back into his
room. wherein, in spite of all the resistance in
her power, he consummated the crime, with
great force and violence—[and the particulars
of which, as stated in the indictment, are until
for publication.]

The indictment then went on to state, that
the pannel, having been apprehended, and
taken before the Sheriff substitute, had emit-

ted before him; on the 11th and 13th of May

two several declarations which being to be
used in evidence against him, had been lodged
in; the usual place for his inspection, as also a
medical certificate signed by Dr Thatcher,
and another medical certificate, signed by Dr
Black, surgeon to the Police Establishment,
and by Mr A. L. Black, and Mr Sidey, sur-
geons,— and also one other article, which.
though it was named in the indictment and
produced on the trial, it would be improper
to mention here.

The trial commenced about twelve o'clock ;
and the prisoner having been placed at the
bar, pleaded Not Guilty.

The Examination of Margaret Gray (who is
not more than fourteen years of age, and who
is a daughter of very decent parents at Joppa,
where her father is a mason) occupied two
hours and a quarter. She underwent a long
and very minute cross-examination; but she
was not materially shaken in her principal
evidence.

There were twenty witnesses in all, for the
Crown, amongst whom were, Margaret Gray,
Mrs Skirving, Catherine Johnston, Ann Gray,
the Medical Gentlemen mentioned in the
indictment, Lieutenant Harvey, and Serjeant
Charles Stewart, jun , of the Police Establish-
ment.

The alleged facts of the case were, that on
the day libelled, the pri-soner and Margaret
Gray being alone, in Mrs Skirving's house, in
the absence of Mrs S., and the rest of the fa-
mily, the prisoner offered the poor girl first
one pound note, then two pound notes, and
then three pound notes, if she would comply
with his wishes. These temptations having
been rejected by the girl, the pannel, as al-
leged, next proceeded to use violence in the
way libelled in the indictment. After the com-
mission of the crime, he had left the house ;
but he returned to it again, and was in bed
when he was apprehended, about eleven
o'clock on the same night. He has all along-
positively denied the crime.

The prisoner is a young man about twenty
eight years of age, dark complexion, roman
nose, short stature, and of gentlemanly dress
and appearance. He was Clerk to a Writer
in Edinburgh. He came from Brechin.

The exculpatory evidence occupied a very
considerab e portion of time, and there were
several very respectable witnesses to the cha-
racter of the pannel.

The Lord Justice Clerk having made a long
and able summing up of the evidence, the
Jury retired to consider of their verdict.

During theabsence of the jury, the pannel
remained in a state of the utmost agitation
and anxiety. He repeatedly gazed round
him with an indescribably haggard expression
on his countenance, over which hung a cloud
of the blackest gloom and most dismal melan-
choly. At times he laid his head down on
his hands and arms ; and for a few moments
seemed a leep ; and then he would raise his
head again with the same unaltered expres-
sion. It struck almost every person in Court
that his app arance now was like that of a
maniac, or rather of a drunk man, amusing
from sleep and trying to collect his dissipated
ideas.
After an absence of about twenty minutes,
the jury return e i at e'even o'clock at night
and pronounced by their C/ anc For the \ill\
lowing verdict :— My Lords : Owing to the
contrad ctory statement of the evidence, we
find the charge Not Proven.'

On hearing these joyful word, the prisoner-
sprung to his feet clapped his hands, attered
an exclamation of gratitude to the jury. and
(all in an instant) appeared us if he wished
to seize his hat, and bound at once out of
the Court..

Persons who shook the prisoner by the hand,
state that it felt like the clammy hand of a
person newly dead, or dying.

Mary Taylor or Leslie, and George Leslie,
were accused of stealing a watch. Mary Tay-
lor guilty of the theft, and George Leslie
guilty of reset.

The female prisoner was sentenced to seven
years transportation, and the man to eighteen
months confinement in Bridewell.

Forbes and Oven, Printers. - [Price One Penny.]Particulars of the Life, Trial, Character, and Behaviour of

MARGARET DICKSON,

AGED 22,

Who was executed at Edinburgh, on Monday, Feb. 1, 1813,
For the MURDER of her Bastard Child.

MARGARET DICKSON was born at Mugsleburgh,
about five miles from Edinburgh, and brought up by
parents in a strict attendance on the worship of God, and
taught early the duties of that station, in which was most
probable Providence would place her, namely, a labori-
ous one.

It is necessary to observe, that the people in the town,
where she lived, are either fishermen, gardeners, or those
who are employed in making salt; and as Edinburgh is
supplied with those articles from that place, most of the
mens wives are employed to get their living, by carrying
the different articles thither, which they cry about the
streets.

When Margaret Dickson grew up, she was married
to a fisherman, but there being a demand for seamen he was
impressed on board one of the ships of war.

During the time he was abroad, she became acquainted
with a man in the same neighbourhood, who seduced her,
and the consequence was, that she became with child, in
Scotland every woman who was guilty of fornication, was
obliged to sit on a seat in the most conspicuous place
in the church, three different Sundays, when she received
a public rebuke from the minister, and so much were the
women intimidated at the disgrace, that many of them de-
stroyed the fruits of their amours, rather than be made a
spectacle to all the inhabitants of a parish ; for nothing was
more common than for these, who would not come to church
to hear a a sermon in seven years, would go to hear the shame
of one of her own sex.

Margaret Dickson was accused by some of her neigh-
bours with being pregnant, but the fear of shame induced
her to deny it, although the symptoms were very plain.

As the time of her delivery drew near, she endeavoured
to conceal it the more, and at last the child was born, but
whether alive or not, cannot be certainly known ; only
that she was apprehended on suspicion, and committed to
Edinburgh Gaol. The surgeon, who examined the body
of the child, made the usual experiments, by putting the
lungs into water, but according to the opinion of some
eminent physicians, that experiment is not always to be
depended upon, it is impossible for men to know every thing;
and it often happens, that gentlemen, who have made the law
their study, and obtained seats on the bench, are obliged,
in taking evidence, to abide by the opinion of a surgeon.
Indeed, where cases are plain, such as a wound with a
weapon, that must of course prove mortal, no doubt can
remain ; but then, when the life of a person depends upon
the opinion of two or three surgeons concerning a disputed
point, we think that both the court and the jury ought
to lean to mercy. In the course of the evidence produced
against Margaret Dickson, it appeared from the depositions
of several witnesses, that she had been apparently pregnant,
although she continued to deny it. It also appeared,
that a child was found dead near the place where she lived,
and there were to be seen about her all the appearances of
a delivery.

The surgeon deposed, that when the lungs of the child
were put into water they swimmed, so that it was their
opinion that it had breathed ; for as they said, unless a child
has breathed, so as air could be drawn into the lungs those
parts of the body will not swim. Upon the whole the evi-
dence was believed by the jury, who found her guilty, and
she received sentence of death.

While she lay in confinement she was extremely penitent,
and acknowledged that she had in many instances, neglected
her duty, and likewise that she had been guilty of fornica-
tion ; but to the last denied murdering the child, or that she
had the least intention of so doing. Her reason for conceal-
ing the birth of the child was for fear of being made a public
example in the church, and a laughing-stock to all her neigh-
bours. She said she was suddenly taken in labour, sooner
than she expected, and her agonies not only prevented her
from getting assistance, but also left her in a state of insen-
sibility, so that what became of her child she could not say.

When she was brought to the gallows she behaved in the
most penitent manner, but still denied her guilt, after which
she was turned off, and hung the usual time.

When cut down her body was given to her friends, who
put her into a coffin, in order to carry it to Musselburgh, for
interment; but the men who had charge of the corpse stop-
ped at a village, called Pepper Mill, about two miles from
Edinburgh, in order to get some refreshment, leaving the
cart with the body near the door. While they were drinking
one of the men thought he saw the lid of the coffin move, and
going towards the cart, uncovered it, when he could per-
ceive the woman to move, and she arose upright in her coffin;
upon which he and others took to their heels, almost killed
with fear. A gardener who was drinking in the house went
up to the coffin, and had the presence of mind to open a
vein, and within an hour afterwards she was so well recovered
as to be able to go to bed. Next morning she walked home
to Mussleburgh. It is necessary to observe that much of the
Scottish law is built on Roman Pandects, and according to
them every person upon whom the judgment of the court has
been executed, has no more to suffer, but must be for ever
discharged. Another maxim in the same institution is, that
the executed person is dead law, so that the marriage is dis-
solved. This was the case with M. Dickson, for the King's
advocate could not pursue her any further, but filed a bill in
the High Court of Justicary against the Sheriff, for not seeing
the judgment executed, and her husband being a good-natured
man, was married to her a few days after. She still conti-
nued to deny that she had committed the crime. From her
example, and the uncertainly of her guilt, it is to be hoped
that juries will be cautious how they find a verdict where the
case may appear doubtful.

This remarkable affair happened at Edinburgh.
Wilkins, Printer, Derby.A correct account of the hardened &
deplorable behaviour of Charles
M'Ewan (now under sentence of death
in Edinburgh,), since his condemna-
tion; with a sketch of his life and

transactions in the north, since he left                                                                                                                                                     
Ireland, about ten years ago.    

The Unfortunate man, who is lying under in the Calton Jail,
attracts at present the  pity and commiseration of the well-
meaning and humane part of the community, in conse-
quence, of his hardened and careless behaviour since his con-
demnation, The following brief sketch of his life was given
us by a  near relation of his own.           

The prisoner is a native of Ireland, and his real name is
M'Eoch,  but  he took the names of Robert M'Leod, John.
M'Intyre, Charles  M'Intosh,   Charles M'Kay, and Charles
M'Ewan  according   as circumstances suited, but he was best
known by the latter.    He and a number of his relations left
Ireland  about   10 year's back, and travelled in Scotland as
tinklers.    The prisoner pitched upon the north of Scotland
as the best country to carry on  his trade.    In the shires of
Aberdeen, Inverness &c. he  was soon  well known, and to
many that lived in remote  places,   having  heard of  daring
deeds committed by him,  his  appearance  in their cottage
would throw a dampness over them.    He was  the terror of
all the  vagrant travellers   in   that  quarter,   and it   is  said
he Would help help himself at pleasure to part of their goods
if they were at a distance from the  hands of justice.    This
and his readiness in giving battle to any that opposed him
got him the appelation of  "the   Cock of the North."    He
has lived with various women as man and  wife ; the one he
lived longest with, has 3 children.    The unfortunate woman
whom he murdered had at that time been only 3 or 4 days
co-habiting with him at that time.     After  committing the
bloody deed, he became restless, which, was observed in the
various houses he  sleeped  in   afterwards.

During his trial he seemed quite unaffected,and after being   
taken to his cell, he was quite sullen.    A number of Pious
Gentlemen visited him,  with the humane intention of en-
deavouring to awaken him to a sense of his awful situation.
Instead of receiving them with pleasure, he treated them in
the coldest manner, and told them that if had done the deed
it was a matter of his own and none of theirs    The unhappy
man continued in this state till within a Few days back, when
he is now beginning to entertain feelings better suited to his
situation.    Lately he has been daily visited by three Cathol-
ic Clergymen with whom much of his   time  is   consumed;
and to their exhortations must be ascribed the change in his
behaviour.    He has become more tranquil: and social; but
continues to discover a  lamentable insensibility to   the fate
which awaits him.    When  in  a talkative mood, he speaks
boastingly of his athletic exploits in the   Highlands; and is
femiliar with the names of all the English pugilists.    He ex-
presses great  anxiety concerning the fate of the impending
battle  betwixt   Spring  and   Langan ; and a few days   ago,
after having been shaved, he invited the barber to spar with
him, which of course was declined.    Once a week he is visit-
ed by a near relation residing in Leith,   who has attempted
in vain to engage him in some suitable conversation.    Every
attention has been paid to his comfort, but he seems to draw
his chief temporal solace from a a tobacco-pipe, which he is
almost continually smoking.

Edinburgh, Printed for the Booksellers,SECOND EDITION,
          
         Murder.



About four o'clock on Saturday morning,
(March 12) the watchman on the Netherbow
station found a man lying on the High Street,
insensible,   and bleeding   severely.    On in-
quiry, he found that he had just been thrown
from the window of a house of an  infamous
character, three storeys high,   and on pro-
ceeding up to which he found four women
and a man, who were immediately taken in-
to custody.     The unhappy victim was re-
moved to the Infirmary, where it was found
his skull was fractured ; he lingered until a-
bout midday, when he died.    As he continu-
ed insensible up to the time of his ueath, it
became,  of course,  impossible to ascertain
from him the cause of this revolting crime;
but the following particulars, which we lave       
reason   to  believe authentic,  may tend to
throw some degree of light on the proceed-
ings.    The room in which the parties were
assembled was rented by a girl named Chr-
lotte Dundas ; but we believe that the othrs,
Elizabeth and Margaret Henderson, Cate-
rine Hay, and Archidald Allan, resided thre
also, at least occassionally ; though how thy
contrived to do so, is not easily to be un-
derstood, as the room itself is hardly so large
as on ordinary-sized  beb-closet.     The  de-
ceased   himself,  whose  name was Stewart,
was also frequently  there,   and  cohabited
with  Margaret  Henderson.    This much is
certain, that, at eleven o'clock on   Friday
night, he was met going down stairs, out of
the house, by a women living in the same
Irnd.    He was then without his hat,  and it
is remarkable, that when found by the watch-
man, there was no hat lying near him ; but
on going into the house, a hat, which Allan
had on at the time, was identified as Stewart's,
but the cap or bonnet usually worn hy Allan
was nowhere to be found.    After having been
seen by the woman at elevec o'clock there
was no farther trace of him that we are a-
ware of till the  time of the catastrophe.
About four in  the morning,  a shoemaker,
who lives below the room, heard a quarrel a-
mong the inmatos.   and scuffling: he also
states, that he heard the body in the act of
falling,   and  the  crash   on   the   pavement.
This   might well be;  for the front of the
house is scratched in various places, evi-
vidently caused by the rubbing of somebody
against it ;   and a piece of old wood, which
projected a very short way from the house,
was broken by the descent.    There are two
windows near the place,   one in the room
itself, and one on the staircase or landing;
and it is supposed to be from the latter that
the deceased was thrown, in a direction slant-
ing down the street, a, the scratchas already
alluded to run in that direction,   till they
reached the broken wood,   whence the fall
seems to have been prependicular.    There is
a family that lives on the same staircase, who
had sub-let the room to Dundas, and who,
it would appear, must have heard something
of  the struggles and fighting, but they deny
all knowledge of the matter.  The prisoners
have all been remitted.  Stewart, we believe.
war about twenty years of age, and the pris-
oners are none of them much older.


Sanderson, Printer,    Edinburgh               THE MURDERED MAN,

ROBERT TENNANT.

WILLIAM PEDDIE.

Copy of the Melancholy and Sorrowful LAMENTATION of ROBERT
TENNANT, the young man who is now confined in the Jail of
Stirling, and who is to be Executed there on the morning of
Wednesday the 2d of October, 1833, for the bloody Murder
of William Peddie, an old man, about 70 years of age, on
the high road between Beancross and Kerse Toll, parish of
Falkirk, on the evening of the 3d of August last.

ROBERT TENNANT is a young man about 24 years of age, was a labour-
er, and employed in breaking stones on the toll road, between Beancross
and Kerse Toll, in the parish of Falkirk, when the unfortunate circumstances
of the murder took place. William Paddie, the deceased, was about 70 years
old, a labourer also, and likewise employed on the same road, on which he was
foreman. On the forenoon of the 3d of August, the day on which the murder
was committed, Peddie was instructed to dismiss Tennant from the work, by
Mr Borth wick, the superintendant of that district of road, because that, although
the deceased had before prevailed on the superintendant to keep him on the
road, it was evident that his drinking and irregularity rendered him unfit to be
longer employed, and had been at that moment, 12 o'clock noon, lying drunk
on the footpath opposite the toll, apparently fast asleep. When he awoke, and
this instruction was communicated to him, the altercation commenced, which
ended in the murder of the poor old man,

Ye fellow men, pray view the end,

Of those who live in crime,
They range abroad without a friend,

And die before their time.
The dreadful scaffold does unfold

A lesson to the young ;
It paints in language seldom told,

That crime will stop the tongue.
When pinion'd fast, the awful view

Does damp the prisoner's heart,
But little thought spectators take,

It leaves no lasting smart.

But as I shortly suffer must,

My sentence justly due,
I leave this last advice to all

That my sad end may view.
You mothers that have tender hearts,

Your children watch with care;
Instruct them early in those parts

That lead from sinful snare.
Now from my dark and dismal cell,

I warn this sinful race,
To fly from crime, and strive to dwell

In unity and peace.
May God above support you all,

And guide you by his grace,
Till you arrive, both great and small,

In realms of endless peace.
And when my awful end you view,

Take warning by my fate,
And every day the thought renew,

Before it be too late.
0 Saviour of mankind, stretch forth

Thine everlasting arms,
And save me from the second death

With all its dire alarms.

Justice now has overtook me,
Stopp'd me in my wicked race ;

Guilt and Horror has pursued me,
And now look me in the face.

Judge of judges ! King of Glory !

0  ! how dreadful is my fate,
Summon'd to appear before thee,

In this guilty awful state,
On the third of August last,

I  to a fair did go,

Which was the awful cause of all

My bitterness and woe.
At Grangemouth this fair was held,

Listen to what I say,
Peddie I met when I returned,

And him I then did slay.
If my days were to begin again,

I to the world would show,
That I would shun the paths of sin,

Wherein destroyers go.

But O ! these days are past and gone,

In fetters here I lie,
In a strong cell I am confin'd,

By men I am doom'd to die.
Because God's laws I did transgress,

And would not walk therein,
But shun'd the paths of righteousness.

And trod the paths of sin.
My days are now fast fleeting by,

The hour draws on apace,
No earthly mercy now is nigh.

Death stares me in the face.
Farewell, my friends, we now must sever,

The thought lies heavy at my heart,
Forget my awful end for ever,

I from you soon must part..    

   

EDINBURGH :,...Menzies, Lawnmarket.,...Price One Penny.   An account of a bloody murder commited on the body of Mary
Grier above the Cross glasgow,  upon Monday Novr. 8th 1790
by John Henderson her own husband.
	
IT is lamentable to  hear of the cruelties committed of late in this Kindom, and especially
in Glasgow and its neighbourhood, as no less than three cruel murders have been com-
mitted   in this vicinity   within  these twelve   months, and it is not above three weeks since
DAY was executed here for one of these murders.    Yet such is the depravity of the times,
that these awful warnings have no effect to deter wicked and hardened men in sin, from com-
mitting the horrid  purposes of their wicked and detestable hearts, a murderer is certainly the
most detestable character in society ; and another is now added to the black list which was too
full  before.   John Henderson, Smith, who lived in the Fiddlers closs, high street Glasgow,
and wrought with a creditable master in the foot of the Grammar-school  wind.    The said
John Henderson had some time ago married a woman of the name of Grier to whom it seems
he has proved a cruel husband, for he had been privately married to another woman before
he married her, with whom he several times went away and left his lawful wife many were the
acts of barbarity which he committed upon his said wife, by beating and abusing her, insomuch
that her father and mother had to take her away from him several times to prevent bad con-
sequences.    O ! that every cruel hard hearted wretch may take a warning from the   fatal
consequences which this treatment produced, for last week she had to be taken from him to
her father's house, and Monday last the 8th of November   1790 She being far advanced in
her pregnancy attempted to go home in order  to prepare for her inlying but when she went
home he behaved in a more cruel manner than ever, he took the cheese which was prepared
for the inlying,   and put it on the fire until it was burnt black,   threatning if she offered to
speak or take it away he would put her in the same place and roast her as black,  he then
poured whisky down her throat against her will, and   otherwise abused her in  a shocking
manner : and when her mother came in she found him thursting his two hand   in   her sides
with all his force, and swearing he would squeese the child out of her, she then fainted a way,
and when the neighbours were bringing a litte water to give her he push'd   it out of their
hands and would not allow them to give her any ; in this situation her mother  then  cal-
led assistance and took her away from him, he followed them home and swore he would burn
the house about them all if he did not get her back along with him, which made her father
apply for a warrant and put him in the tolbooth upon Tuesday, and upon Thursday morning
his wife died in great agony of the bruises she got from him; the steads of his hand remain
in her sides where he forced in his hands, he still remains in jail, and it is hoped he will meet
with the reward due to his enormous crime, in the mean time, must shock the hardest heart
to read such a cruel narrative, when the woman was in a condition that merited the tenderest
usage and the greatest encouragement to enable her to go through the  peril of child-birth,
to be used in such a cruel manner by her own husband, as to send her and the child along
with her unto an untimely grave; may God of his infinite mercy grant, that few Instances of
this cruelty may be found in our land.                  AN ACCOUNT OF THE

Horrid and Barbarous

OF

Helen   McDougal,

Wife of the Miscreant BURKE, who was Strangled to Death by
a number of Women at Deanstone Mills about a mile from Doun
near Perth.                                                      

Glasgow, 25th April, 1829.

It appears that Helen McDougall wife of the miscreant Burke, after her lib-
eration from Edinburgh, took her way to Glasgow where she remained for a
number of days till the suspicion of the persons whom she lodged with, caused
her repeatedly to shift, after which she bent her way to the Readon, where her
parents reside and holds a respectable situation, and where she remained for some
time, but being greatly annoyed one night her parents were under the necessity of
conveying her out of the back window in the middle of the night, and leave her to
spent the remainder of her wretched life in the best way she could. She then took
her way to Stirling where she stopt some time, and took up with a man of the
name of Campbell, a native of Perth, where they dwelt there for about one
month, being a stranger in the place, a suspicion arose, and she was recognised
on Tuesday last, and was resolved to go to Deanstone Cotton Mills, her man be-
ing a Spinner, and on her arrival there, he had got employment for three days
only, when she was totally discovered before she was aware of it, Campbell being
absent at the time, on the morning of Thursday when the Mills were going
in, she was attacked by a great number of Individuals most of them Females,
who attacked her furiously, siezed her by the hair of the head and strangled her,
one of the woman dispatched her by putting her foot on her breast, and crushed
her severely, she was then carried to a neighbouring house, where she expired
in the course of a few minutes. This put an end to the West-Port Murderers,
except Hare's Wife, who escaped from Belltorbett, on the death of her Husband.

MURDER of HARE.

On the night of friday the 10th April, about twelve o'clock, Hare took up his abode in the house of one
Atkinson, who was one of his old accomplices. The house was surrounded by a large mob, who swore
that they would Murder every person in the house if they did not give up Hare. In an instant they rus-
hed forward, broke open the door, and searched every corner, some person on the  outside observed him 
coming  out of the top of the chimney, where in a  moment of time he was brought to the ground, and
in a few minutes his body was so much mangled that he was taken by the police to a surgeon's shop and
his wounds dressed, but he died in the course of four hours.                            

      Printed for D. GLEN.  A WEUL    AND    ALARMING    ALLEGED     
MURDER,  IN NORTH BRIDGE STREET, 

EDINBURGH.

Just Published, an Account of that horrible and
cruel Murder, alleged to have been committed on the
person of Mr Thomas  Turner, late Landlord of the
Ches'shire Tavern. North Bridge, Edinburgh; with
the apprehension of Margaret Patrick or Turner, his
wife, and Mr William Dodds, High Street, who are
implicated in this tragical affair.

A case of such an attrocious nature, as the one which
we are about to record, requires to be treated with the
greatest circumspection,  more especially as   the parties
implicated have not,  as yet,   undergone a thorough in-
vestigation.     The following, however, are the outlines
of the catastrophe. - On Saturday last, Mr Turner   was
in his wonted health   and spirits,  and while in   his own
house was so assaulted that on Tuesday night, he breath-
ed his last,     Many   surmises are   afloat regarding  this
fatal affair,  but   certain it is, on   Mr Turner's demise,
his body was found to bear marks of extreem violence,
and after a surgical examination, and judicial investiga-
tion, which being reported to the  Public  Authorities,
grounded a cause against Mr Dods, and Mrs  Turner. 
The deceased and his   wife   (who was formerly  his   bar
maid) lived  on very  disagreeable terms, and were more
than once before the bar of the Police Court on charges
of assault,     Mr Turner was twice married and   has  left
two children by the prisoner.    His body   is  still lying
in the tavern,   which will propably  not   be intired until
a   further  consultation   takes place among   the medical
gentlemen   appointed to inspect   it.
Edinburgh, 20th March,   1834.

The deceased Roger Haldon, a labourer, residing in a small cottage
near Blackburn.   was poisoned by his wife, under the following cir-
cuamstnces - The parties lived   upon the  most unfriendly terms, in
consequence of a jealousy on  the part of the deceased, who was about
45  years of age, his wife, aged 29, was connected with another
man,  Inconsequence of these disagreements she formed  the diaboli-
cal scheme of  boisoning   him.     With   this view she preyailed on a
neighbouring shopkeeper   to bring   her half a pound  of arsenic from
Blackburn, for   the  purpose, as  she alleged , of  destroying fleas. The
husband being in the habit, on his  return from work in the even-
ing of drinking a little tea or coffee from the teapot, she placed the
arsenic in this vessel among   the coffee.      It stood   two nights with -
out tasting it;   but on the evening in  qnestion, he being rather dry,
and seeing the teapot upon  the   table,   he asked her  if   she had any
thing for to drink? She  replied,     "Eigh,   there's  the pot; on
which he took it up, and drank heartily of its contents, Immedi-
ately after wards  he went ont , with the intention of going to the house
of a relation, but before  he arrived  he dropped down, and shortly
after expired. The wife being taken ,into custody, confessed   her
guilt, but added, with apparent confidence of safety, 'But  mind. 
thought  I  put the stuft ioto the pot I did  not give it  to him.--he
took it himself '.                     Examiner.
Forbes, Printer, Edinburgh.Awful murder
In Bridgeton.

An account of a most cruel and, inhuman Murder, which was
committed at Mile End, Bridgeton, on Monday evening last,
on the body of Sarah M'Viccar, a fine young  woman, about
18 years of age, who was stabbed in the throat by her Sweet-
heart, Charles Campbell, in a fit of jealousy, and instantly fell
dead at his feet—5th December, 1825.

IT is with horror we have to lay before the public an account of a most atrocious
deed, which occurred in a public house, kept by a person of the name of M'Gown,
near the Barrowfield Road toll-bar, in the neighbourhood of this City, on Monday
evening last;  it was perpetrated by an unhappy individual whilst under the influence .
of that green-eyed monster—Jealousy.  Many reports were in circulation, but the   
following particulars will be-found, we believe, to be substantially correct.

Sarah M'Viccar was a pretty looking girl, about 18 years of
age, and worked in one of the Cotton Mills in the neighbour-
hood; she had  the misfortune about a year ago, to have a child
to a gentleman; after the death of the child, she took up and
co-habited for some  time with a man of the name of Charles
Campbell, hut in consequence of some supposed grievance, she
had left him some time ago. On the above evening, a number
of work-people were dancing in the public-house, and one of
them went for Sally about 12 o'clock to give her a reel; her friends
advised her not to go, but she was persuaded and went, and was
Only a very short time in the house, when she lay a lifeless
corpse.

It is said When she entered the room with her companion, (Who was a married
man) Campbell, fired with jealousy, deliberately left the room, and having procured
a knife, returned, when he found Sally sitting on the knee of his supposed rival,
when he instantly thrust the weapon with so deadly an aim, into the unfortunate
girl's throat, that she fell at his feet, and expired in a few seconds. A doctor was
immediately got, but all was of no avail, life had for ever  fled, and the unfortunate
victim of lawless passion, lay steeped in her gore.                  

The scene of merriment now became a scene of horror, terror, and dismay;
females shrieking, and shouts of murder spread terror around; the whole neigh-
bourhood became alarmed, and the police having arrived, the body of the unhappy
girl was taken to the Police Office, Calton, and her murderer was also secured and
conveyed thither, and after examination, Campbell was committed to prison, there
to await the award of impartial justice.                                                 

Campbell is by trade a Cotton Spinner, and he is said to be above Thirty years
of age.                                                                                                  .

The individuals are well known in the neighbourhood, and  the death of the un-
fortunate girl has caused a great sensation-in that vicinity, where the friends of both
parties reside.                                                                                                    

                                          John Muir,Printer, Glasgow.DEMPSTERS

APPREHENSION

AND

CONFESSION.

A Full and particular Account the Apprehension of
Robert Dempster, junior, Slater in Cupar of Fife,
accused of the Murder of M'DONALD, a Flax-
Dresser, with his slate-hammer, on the High Road
between Craigrothie and Wemyss Hall Gate, a few
weeks ago, and who is now lodged in Cupar Jail,
having been Apprehended at Doune, on Monday
Evening the 25th October 1830.

We understand that ROBERT DEMPSTER, junior, slater Cupar
Fife, accused of murdering  M'Donaid, flax-dresser, was apprehended
at Doune on Monday night.    The  circumstances   which led to his
apprehension are as follow:—-As  two  Highland drovers (one un-
derstanding   English  and  the  other  not) were, on Monday about
one o'clock, passing the turnpike gate at Causeway Head, near Stir-
ling, they perceived a man resting by the way side, with whom the
one that had Englisn  entered into conversation.    The man then
arose and accompanied them to Doune, and appeared to be in a
very melancholy and disconsolate state; asked the road to Ayr ;
and began to narrate, that about a month ago he was drinking in
Fife,  and being intoxicated, he  struck another man with a slate
hammer, who, in consequence, died on Saturday week last; that he
intended to go to America.    On approaching the Bridge of Allan,
he asked one of their plaids, and  seemed anxious to conceal him-
self.    After arriving at Doune, the drover reflecting upon the in-
telligenee he had received, thought it a duty incumbent upon him
to give  information to the Civil  Authorities  in  that   place.    Mr
Christie, one of the Perth Sheriff-officers, immediately apprehended
the man, and carried him before an intelligent Justice of the Peace
in the neighbourhood, who, on exrmining the talkative drover, con-
veyed him to Dunblane.

On Tuesday morning he underwent a judicial  examination be-
fore the Sheriff-Substitute and Procurator Fiscal.   He acknowledged
having fallen in with M'Donald in one Cooper's, a publican, about
three miles from Craigrothie, with  whom  he  drank three gills ;
that he left the house along with M'Donald, and being urged, and
promised a gill on arriving at Ceres, by M'Donald, he accompanied
him   on  the   road  leading  to  that place.  until  they  arrived at or
about Wemyss Hall gate, where he  was  irritated  by  McDonald
telling him he ought to be hung by the neck  like  Henderson the
Murderer, and striking him twice across  the  shoulder  and back
with a stick; that he thereon  struck  M'Donald one blow on the
head with his slate hammer, which felled him to the ground, and
then threw the hammer at him, which also  struck him  on  the
head; that he immeditely took an indirect road through the fields
to Cupar, an offered himself up to the  Jailor: that on being re-
fused admittance, he skulked about Cupar and its immediate vi-
cinity, until he heard that M'Donaid had died, when he decamped
with the intention of going to America.    Dempster farther stated,
that both parties were in a state of inebriation at the time, and they
had no conversation whatever as to money.    He was sent off to
Cupar Jail on Wednesday.
	
DEMPSTER'S

APPREHENSION

AND

CONFESSION.

A Full and particular Account the Apprehension of
Robert Dempster, junior, Slater in Cupar of Fife,
accused of the Murder of M'DONALD, a Flax-
Dresser, with his slate-hammer, on the High Road
between Craigrothie and Wemyss Hall Gate, a few
weeks ago, and who is now lodged in Cupar Jail,
having been Apprehended at Doune, on Monday
Evening the 25th October 1830.

We understand that ROBERT DEMPSTER, junior, slater Cupar
Fife, accused of murdering M'Donald, flax-dresser, was apprehended
at Doune on Monday night. The circumstances which led to his
apprehension are as follow:—As two Highland drovers (one un-
derstanding English and the other not) were, on Monday about
one o'clock, passing the turnpike gate at Causeway Head, near Stir-
ling, they perceived a man resting by the way side, with whom the
one that had English entered into conversation. The man, then
arose and accompanied them to Doune, and appeared to be in a
very melancholy and disconsolate state; asked the road to Ayr;
and began to narrate, that about a month ago he was drinking in
Fife, and being intoxicated, he struck another man with a slate
hammer, who, in consequence, died on Saturday week last; that he
intended to go to America. On approaching the Bridge of Allan,
he asked one of their plaids, and seemed anxious to conceal him-
self. After arriving at Doune, the drover reflecting upon the in-
telligence he had received, thought it a duty incumbent upon him
to give information to the Civil Authorities in that place. Mr
Christie, one of the Perth Sheriff-officers, immediately apprehended
the man, and carried him before an intelligent Justice of the Peace
in the neighbourhood, who, on exrmining the talkative drover, con-
veyed him to Dunblane.

On Tuesday morning he underwent a judicial examination be-
fore the Sheriff-Substitute and Procurator Fiscal. He acknowledged
having fallen in with M'Donald in one Cooper's, a publican, about
three miles from Craigrothie, with whom he drank three gills ;
that he left the house along with M'Donald, and being urged, and
promised a gill on arriving at Ceres, by M'Donald, he accompanied
him on the road leading to that place, until they arrived at or
about Wemyss Hall gate, where he was irritated by M'Donald
telling him he ought to be hung by the neck like Henderson the
Murderer, and striking him twice across the shoulder and back
with a stick; that he thereon struck M'Donald one blow on the
head with his slate hammer, which felled him to the ground, and
then threw the hammer at him, which also struck him on the
head ; that he immeditely took an indirect road threugh the fields
to Cupar, an offered himself up to the Jailor: that on being re-
fused admittance, he skulked about Cupar and its immediate vi-
cinity, until he heard that M'Donald had died, when he decamped
with the intention of going to America. Dempster farther stated,
that both parties were in a state of inebriation at the time, and they
had no conversation whatever as to money. He was sent off to
Cupar Jail on Wednesday.Horrid & Barbarous

MURDER.

Committed upon the Body of Mary Thomson,
By her sweet-heart David Brown,

A FARM-SERVANT NEAR CARLISLE,

Who Seduced her under promise of Marriage,—and when, on account of her
pregnancy, she became urgent on their marriage, he appointed to meet
her at Lime Wood, where, in a lonely spot, he stabbed her with a knife,
and then threw her into a pond, with a quantity of stones tied into her
shawl. With an account of the wonderful discovery of the body, on which
was found the letter of appointment,—and which led to the apprehension
of the perpetrator of the dreadful crime.

DAVID BROWN, a young man, aged 21 years, and farm-servant to Mr
James Luke of Campton, has been fully committed to Carlisle Jail, for
the wilful murder of his sweetheart, Mary Thomson, a lovely girl, aged 19,
the only daughter of Isaac Thomson of Amsterdale, and servant to a respec-
table farmer of that neighbourhood. They had kept company together for
about twelve months ; and having, under promise of marriage, seduced her,
the consequence was she proved pregnant. On discovering her situation, she
urgently entreated him not to abandon her to the scorn of the world, but to
fulfill the solemn promise he had made, and marry her. He put her off from
time to time with evasive answers ; and after a week or two, he sent her the
following letter, which, happily for the ends of justice, was found upon her
person after she was murdered.

" Dear Mary.—To night, at seven o'clock, meet me at the north end of Lime Wood, near the
Willow Glen, and we will, quite undisturbed, at our leisure, arrange matters for our marriage,
and adopt plans for our future course of life Destroy this note, and let no person know you are
to meet me, else it may marr our projects.            Yours, &c. D. BROWN."

With heart somewhat relieved, this poor young creature at the appointed
time hastened to the fatal spot, and with smiles the insidious fiend received
her. They walked on at a slow pace for about half-an-hour, till they came
to a lonely and dreary spot, where was a lake surrounded with trees. In a
moment the villian seized her, and with a knife stabbed her. She fell on her
knees, the blood flowing from her side, and tears running down her comely
cheeks, and cried, " Mercy ! David, Mercy!—Think on your baby, think
on myself!—think on the solemn vows you made !" But all in vain—The
villian repeated his murderous blows till she lay a lifeless corpse at his feet,
drenched in her reeking blood.

He then threw her body into the lake ; but the watchful eye of Providence
was upon him, and before the week expired, it was discovered, the monster
apprehended, and now awaits his trial, in irons, in the county jail.

COME all false-hearted young men,

And listen to my song,
'Tis of a cruel murder

That lately has been done.
On the body of a maiden fair,

The truth I will unfold,
The bare relation of this deed

Will make your blood run cold.
Near Amsterdale, in fair Carlisle,

Mary Thomson she did dwell,
In spotless fame long time she lived,

Till this to her befell.
By  David Brown's deluding tongue,

Poor Mary was beguiled,
And soon to her misfortune,

By him she proved with child.
Some days ago this damsel fair,

Did write to him with speed,
such tenderness she did express,

Would make a heart to bleed.
She said,   my dearest David,

I am with child by thee,
Therefore, my dear pray let me know,     

When you will marry me.                 

That selfsame night he did appoint
                To meet her in Lime Wood,

         Where his true love soon did him meet,
                Ne'er dreading ought but good.

         When to the fatal spot they came,
                A knife then forth he drew,

And while she loud for mercy call'd,
Did pierce her body threw.

He took the shawl from off her neck,
And round her body tied.

With peeble stones he did it fili,
                Thinking the crime to hide.

         O then into the watery lake,

He plunged her straightway,

Which with her precious blood was stain'd,
                And soon did him betray.

         O then this young man taken was
                And into prison sent,

In rattling chains he is confined,

His crime for to lament.
Until the Assizes do come on,

When trembling he must stand,
 Reflecting on the deed he's done,

       Waiting the dread command.


SANDERSON, PRINTER, 243, HIGH STREET, EDINBURGH.

HORRID

A Full, True. and Particular Account of that most Horrid and
Barbarous Murder, committed by JAMES FRASER, a chim-
ney-sweeper, in Blackfriars' Wynd, this day on the body of his
own Wife, by striking her on the back of the head with a leaden
bullet.

It has again become our painful duty to record another
of the shocking depravity of human nature, in the recurrence of
one of those most diabolical and attrocious crimes which have of
late years so foully stained the annals of this enlightened country.

Murder is a crime of the darkest hue, and its perpetration is
looked upon with such utter abhorrence, that'the bare mention of
its being committed upon an entire stranger or even an avowed
enemy to the murderer, causes the blood of the most callous indi-
vidual to run cold in its circulation through the human frame;
but with how much additional horror is the perpetration of this
foul crime attended when committed by a man possessed of all the
powers of reason and reflection upon the wife of his bosom, the
partner of his joys and sorrows, and whom he is bound both by the
laws of God and man to protect even unto death. Yet it is a
matter of melancholy reflection that deeds of this foul description
have of late years become of too frequent occurrence in what was
wont to be termed " moral Scotland ;"—and, not with standing of
the many awful warnings and examples which have consequently

seen exhibited by the law, we are again called upon to add another

case to the horrid catalogue.

This day, at two o'clock, a sootyman of the name of James Fra-
er, residing in Blackfriars' wynd, was taken into custody on a
charge of murder, committed on the body of his own wife.

It appears that the deceased and her husband were in the ha-
bitual custom of indulging themselves so freely in the use of ar-
dent spirits, that they frequently quarrelled themselves, and often
set the whole neighbourhood in an nproar.

The deceased was conveyed in a hand-barrow to the police-of-
fice, to await an examination by the proper authorities, and the

husband has likewise been taken into custody.

Fraser and his wife, it is understood, had had a quarrel in the
morning, and, it is believed, she received the fatal stroke behind
the ear, and possibly with a leaden bullet as used by chimney-
sweeps in their usual employment.

In the present early stage of the investigation, it would he high-
ly improper in us to indulge in a repetition of the various state-
ments we have heard connected with this horrid crime.

Such is the account of this affair which has reached us : But it
is necessary, of course, to receive them with the utmost caution,
until the production of legal evidence on the charge.

Jack at Trafalgar.—A veteran at the battle of Trafalgar, who
was actively employed at one of the guns on the quarter-deck of
the Britannia, had his leg shot off below the knee, and observed
to an officer who was ordering him to be conveyed to the cock-pft,
"That's but a shilling touch ; an inch higher and I should had my
eighteen-pence for it; alluding to the scale of pensions allowed for
wounds, which, of course, increase according to their severity.
The same hearty fellow, as they were lifting him on a brother
tar's shoulders, said to one of his friends, " Bob, take a look for
my leg, and give me the silver buckle out of my shoe: I'll do as
much for you, please God, some other time."

Black guard—(See Johnson, &c.)—a term said to be derived from
a number of dirty, tattered, and roguish boys, who attended at the
Horse-Guards, and Parade in St. James's Park, to black the boots
and shoes of the soldiers, or to do any other dirty offices. These
from their constant attendance about the ime of guard mounting,
were nick-named the Black Guards.

Sanderson, Printer, High Street.Murder Execution                                            

Horrid

Murder

Execution.

A true and particular account of William and Alexander
Thomson, two brothers, who were hanged upon the new
drop of Exeter, on Friday, 28th. May 1830 for the mur-
der of their father.

At the Exeter Assizes held last week, William and Alexander Thomson, two
brothers were indicted for the most attrocious murder of their father, James Thom-
son by entering his bed room in the night, and cruelly cutting his throat, they be
ing advised to commit this horrid transaction by two infamous woman, for the pur-
pose of obtaining his money. They intended to rob the house after committing
this attrocity, and being disappointed, the two females were the first informers on 
the murderers. These unfortunate young men were immediately appre-.
hended and committed to the- J il of Exeter, in order to abide their trial.
When they appea'ed at the bar. they both pleaded not guilty. The youn-
ger brother on observing his paramour as an evidence against him he
looked at her for some time with a steady countenance but afterwards
shewed some symptoms of despair.

The witnesses having been examined at length the Jury retired for a few min-
utes, and returned a verdict finding both prisoners gnilty of the murder or their
father. ...The Learned Judge than proceeded to pass the last sentence of the law
He addressed them both in the most solemn manner on the enormity of their
crime, and hoped they would sincerely repent, and prepare themselves for an e—
nother world, He then ordered that, they should be both executed at the comman
place of Execution in the City of Exeter, on Friday First and their hodies given
for desection.

At half-past 2 o'clock on Friday   the   unfortunate   men ascended the platform
accompanied by the. under Sherriff, Chaplain and other assistants. They both
spoke to the surrounding multitude for some  time beseeching them to take a sol-
emn warning by their fate, to keep holy the sabbath day, and to refrain from
the company of bad women and drunkenness. The oldest brother bowed himself
to the spectators. and bade them  all a finale farewel . He thanked the Rev.
Gentlemen most kindly for their attendance and after spending a few minutes in
prayer, the signal was given and they were launched into eteruity. After haug-
ing the usual time, their bodies were cut down and delivered to the surgeons
for dissection.

During their imprisonment they behaved with propriety, and paid every atten-
tion to their religious duties They addressed a few lines to an uncle, asking
forg veness and making the most sincere repentance. They expected no miliga-
gation of punishment, and often wished that the fatal hour was come that they
would end their misery. Tney died in peace with all mankind, but regretted the
shame and disgrace they had brought upon the country.

Copy of a letter from one of   these young men,   the Day

before his execution, to his sweatheart—Condemned Cell

8 o'clock, Dear   Margaret   before   leaving this world,   I

write you these lines, letting you  know that I sincerely re

   pent all my past crimes,   I never tnought  that  you who

I   was the cause of me being led astray would have been an

evidence at my trial.     I  freely   forgive   you,   but I hope

that all other young men will gaurd against all such vices!

and not be enamoured by the deceit and treachery of such

  female traitors.            A. L.

   On Monday last, Elizabeth Wilson   about  19 years of age, put an end to her ex-      

 istence by swallowing a   large dose of Poison, on account of a sea Captain, with

  whom she had fallen in love  he having  held out promises which he never inten-

  ded to fulfil, and who sailed  for London, before her remains were laid in the sil-

 ent grave, she wrote the following most  effeetive letter, the night before the sad

  event addressed to her faithless lover, as follows, Dear Captain,   If my exhausted

Spirit, should support   my trembling hand, whilst I write a few lines to ease a bro-

ken heart, it would be the last office  I would require them   to do tnen may they

leave me than may I find in my grave a retreat from the schorn of men If  I fly to

my parents who were  once   all   my   comfort they bathed in tears, cry out

you have brought out grey hairs, with sorrow to  the grave, thus is all na-

ture armed against me and who's account do  I   seem to   be forsaken   on

your account, who strove to gain my eflections and become master of them

and now you triumph over me for trusting to your houour or putting con.

fidenos in your word.                              E. VV.

W. Robertson, Printer, Edinburgh.





I                                                                                                            

HORRID

MURDER.

An Account of the Barbarous and Inhu-
 man Murder of Mrs Franks and her
 Daughter, with the Wonderful Manner
 the Murders were discovered.

MRS FRANKS and her daughter resided in a remote
place at the village of the Abbey, near Haddington.
Upon the night of Wednesday the 28th of October,
1829, the above murder was committed in a most cruel
and diabolical manner, her throat was cut from ear to ear
with that of her daughter, a young girl only 14 years of
age; the body of the old woman was dragged into the pig
house. Mrs Franks was a widow, and had been at one
time in good circumstances of life, and at that period
was supposed to have money beside her, which it is
thought might have been the cause of this horrid murder,
which we can form no other idea of, in order to rob the
house, to which the mother and her daughter both fell
victims to-the hands of cruel monsters. Upon the fol-
lowing morning her son-in-law was apprehended, in con-
sequence of a strong suspicion excited against him, and
when he was examined he denied the charge with the
greatest firmness in the most solemn manner ; but he was
accordingly committed to the gaol of Haddington upon
the above charge, and from that recommitted to .Edin-
burgh. A few days ago a  travelling merchant with a
variety of goods was passing through the town, when a
young girl began to barter with him for a silk shawl, &
presented him with a gold seal, on which were engraved
two letters of a man's name. The merchant recognized
the seal which belonged to a brother of his, who was a
travelling merchant like himself, who was barbarously
murdered about six years ago; this struck the other
brother with astonishment, and being fully convinced
that the seal belonged to his brother, he soon concluded
the bargain with the greatest coolness and propriety, &.
immediately went his way and apprised Bailie Hay of
the circumstance, when a search warrant was granted, &
the house searched, when a number of goods was found
which he identified to be his murdered brother's proper-
ty, and amongst the rest a gold watch, which was proved
to be the property of the above Mrs Franks. The young
girl was instantly taken into custody, her father, John
Smith, and wife, was from home, but in the course of a.
few hours were apprehended and examined separately
upon both the murder of  Mrs Franks and her daughter,
with that of the merchant, but denied the whole of the
charges preferred against them, and refused answering
any farther questions to forward the examination. The
body of the above pedlar was found between Hadding-
ton and Linton, in a wood about six years ago, stripped
of every thing he possessed. A diligent enquiry was
made at the time as to this horrid murder, which proved
fruitless, but we trust now that both these atrocious deeds
are disclosed, so that the hand of Providence has various
ways of disclosing the deeds of the wicked to bring them
to a punishment they so justly merit.

Both Smith and his wife have long maintained bad
characters in this place, and it is but a short time ago
since they used a quantity of laudanum mixed in liquor,
and induced a traveller selling stocking yarn, to drink
of it in order to robe her. This has been their common
practice we understand for a number of years. We do
not pretend to say that Mrs Franks' son-in-law is not
guilty, but from the strongest of proofs that they are
both deeply connected. We are happy to state, not
doubting those to be the persons, that it will be satisfac-
tory to the public, and that the ruffians may meet that
pusishment they so justly merit.

Printed by T. Robertson, Haddington..Horrid Murder.

A Full True and Particular Account of a Cruel and
Dreadful MURDER, committed on the Bodies of
Two ORPHAN CHILDREN, by Mrs LONG,
their Mother-in-law, at Gainsboro', in Lincolnshire,
on  the 26th January, 1824, and who also attempt-
ed to Cut her own Throat

THE following surprising and solemn miracle attended with so
awful a judgment, will make a deep impression on the minds
of a discerning public. It displays the abhorrence of Divine pro-.
vidence, against wicked actions committed as it were in defiance of
Omnipotency. Numbers are astonished that; such a  wretched wo-
man should have existence, but more when they hear the barbarous
and inhuman act of cruelty she perpetrated upon Three poor Or-
phan Children, to inherit a large property that was left them at the
death of their own father, Mr Long, an independant Gentleman, at
Gainsbro'. When he was upon his dying bed, he sent for his
three lovely children, Samuel, Sarah, and Jane, all under ten years
of age, and begged of his wife to bring them up in the fear of God,
which she faithfully promised him she would do, but shortly after
his death she became acquainted with one Mr J. B r, a young-
gentleman from the country, which soon, made her forget her pro- •
mises, and instead of behaving to them in a motherly manner, she
was always forming a plan to destroy them for the sake of their for-
tune, when one day she  received a note from the young gentleman.

A COPY OF HIS LETTER.

" Dear Madam,—I have taken the opportunity of writing a few
lines to let you know that I have been thinking of what past be-
tween you and me the other day, about changing our situation but
I can by no means think of marrying a woman with three children
and you say. you have no other property but what is left to them,
were it not for that,  I should have no objection to fulfil my pro-
mise, so no more at present from your sincere friend and well-
wisher,                                        J.B----r."

 After this wicked wretch read this letter, she begun to ill-use
these poor fatherless and motherles  children in an inhuman man-
ner, without any cause, and in a most shocking emaciated state,
locked them up in an old out house, determined to starve them to
death, reporting it about she sent them to a Boarding school in the
Country ; but after they had been three days and, three nights in
that deplorable situation, the Devil infused it into the heart of this 
reprobate, to murder them. The hardened wretch thinking it
would be impossible to be discovered, she immediately seized a
large case knife, determined to put an end to their existance, but
when these poor innocent children saw the door open, they begun
to smile, and thought she was going to take them from that  horri-
ble place of confinement, where they were almost perishing to,
death with hunger and cold, when the wicked wretch seized two of
these poor innocent babes with violence, and plunged the knife in-
to their tender bosoms; but it is happy to relate, that the poor boy
made his escape, and alarmed the next door neighbours, who im-
mediately ran to their assistance, but too late for the two poor
harmless babes who were lying in gores of blood too horrid for
description, and when this wretched woman found that she was
detected, and could not have her will of the other, she cut her own
throat, but the surgeon was iokmediately sent for, and by his aid
and assistance her life was saved, and is now in custody in a most
dangerous situation, but is hopen she will recover, and take the aw-
ful and just judgment of the law, which cannot but remain a last-
ing warning to the world at large.

Edinburgh, Printed for Alexander Turnbull, price one penny.Horrid Murder!

A full, true and particular Account of that most
Atrocious and Horrid Murder, committed on
the body of a respectable old gentleman of the
name of Millie, in the neighbourhood of Cupar,
in Fife; together with the apprehension of his
man-servant, named Henderson, on suspicion of
having perpetrated this barbarous deed, and who
is now lodged in Cupar Jail.

(From the Edinburgh Observer.)

A  MURDER of a very horrid and atrocious
description has just been discovered in the
neighbourhood of Cupar, in Fife.    About ten or
twelve   days   ago   a   respectable  old  gentleman,
named Millie, who resided there, in a house sur-
rounded  by a garden and park, disappeared  in a
somewhat   mysterious   manner;    and   suspicion
having been excited that he was murdered, search
was made in his grounds, when his body, muti-
lated by a hammer, or some such instrument, was
found buried in his garden.    A man, who acted,
as we have heard, as his servant, and whose name
is Henderson, has been appreheaded on suspicion
of having perpetrated this horrible crime, and is
now in Cupar Jail.    To these facts we are enabled
to add the following particulars :....On  Tuesday
last, (the 20th July instant,) a most respectable in-
dividual in this city (Edinburgh) received a parcel,
addressed to his  care, directed for the murdered
man, of whom he had no knowledge whatever.
This parcel the sheriff-officers subsequently traced
to the coach-office, and from thence to the place
where it had been delivered, when it was instantly
handed over to them in the same state that it had
been received; and yesterday (Monday, July 26,)
the clerks at the coach-office, and the gentleman
alluded to, were examined here by the authorities.
The parcel, we understand, contained charters and
other documents relative to the murdered man's
property, and is supposed to have been dispatched
by his murderer from Cupar a day or two subse-
quent to his disappearance—probably with   the
view of misleading enquirers.

Second Edition, Observer Office, 4  o'clock P.M.

Mr Millie was what was called a damask customer weaver~ that
is, a weaver who weaves for families~at Whin Park, near Monimail,
six miles from Cupar.    He usually employed one or two journey-
men, who boarded in the house.    He had been missing for about a
month, and his absence was accounted for by Henderson, the man
who is charged with the murder, and who resided in the house as a
journeyman, on the ground that he had gone to Edinburgh to su-
perintend a law process against Lord Leven.    The deceased being
rather an eccentric character, and disposed to be litigious, this story
was credited for some time~and the more readily because Hender-
son still  continued  to reside in the house.    It being known, how-
ever, that Henderson was previously short of cash, the circumstance
of his appearing much better  supplied than formerly, began to ex-
cite notice.    An inquiry was  consequently instituted, and  on  Sa-
turday the body of Millie was found buried in his own garden.    On
that day Henderson told a neighbour that Millie had returned home,
but had  been   obliged  to go  to   Cupar,  from  whence  he would
be back in the evening.     An hour or two after Henderson dissa-
peared, and search commenced.    On entering the house indications
were visible of an attempt to dig into the floor, which was of clay,
but the house being founded on a rock, the earth had been  opened
only to the depth of a foot, when the digger encountered  that in-
surmouutable   obstruction.     The  search  being  transferred to the
garden, the body  was  discovered as  already  stated,—ouried in a
foot-path leading to a well.    The path was so beaten that,  but for
an accidental circumstance,  the  discovery  would  probably  never
have been made.    Information having been given to the  Sheriff-
Substitute, he instantly repaired to the scene of crime, and  institut-
ed an investigation, which    led to the pursuit of Henderson,  who
was apprehended at Dunfermline,  on  Sunday morning—of which
town he is a native.    He denies all knowledge of the murder,

Printed for Felix O'Neill.

HUE and CRY,

ATTROCIOUS MURDER
AND ROBBERY.

REWARD OF FIVE HUNDRED

GUINEAS.

AT Five o'clock this Evening WILLIAM BEGBIE, Porter to the
British Linen Company at Leith, was Stabbed and Murdered in
Tweedale's Close,  leading to the British Linen   Company's Office at
Edinburgh, and Robbed of a Sealed Parcel, in  a  Yellow Canvas  Bag,
containing the following particulars, viz.                    

L. 1300 of Sir William Forbes and Co's. notes in notes of L.20 each.
L. 1000 in notes of Leith Banking Company, of L.20 each.
L. 1400 in notes of different Banks, of L.20, L. 10, and L. 5.
240 Guinea Notes of different Banks.                                
440 Twenty Shilling Notes  of different banks.

As the Weapon with which the Murder was committed was found
upon the Spot, it is requested that any person who may have recently
sold a common Bread Knife, with a wooden Handle, stained of a red
colour will immediately give intimation as aftermentioned.

Whoever will, within Three Months from this date, give such Infor-
mation to the Manager for the British Linen Company, The Magistrates    
of Edinburgh, The  Sheriff of the  County of Edinburgh, or Judge of 
Police, as shall be the means of Discovering the Person or Persons  who
committed the aforesaid Murder and Robbery, shall receive a Reward of
FIVE HUNDRED GUINEAS
To be paid upon Conviction of the Offender or Offenders.    And, Far-
ther in case  any one of the Associates shall make the Discovery, His
Majesty's Pardon will also be applied for in his favour.

N. B. It is intreated that Bankers, Merchants, and others will take
notice of all Notes of the above Descriptions which may happen to be
presented to them, especially if by Persons of suspicious appearance,

EDINBURGH, November 13 th 1806.
Alex. Smellie, Printer.Lamentation

OF

Elizabeth Banks

Presently lying under Sentence of Death in the Calton-Hill Jail, and who is
to be Executed at Edinburgh on Monday the 3d day of August next, for
the Horrid and Barbarous Murder of PETER BANKS, her husband, at
Pathtead, by giving him a quantity of Arsenic in a doze of Epsom Salts
on the 28th of April past, of which he died the same day in great agony.

ELIZABETH  M'NIEL or NIEL or BANKS or BAULKS was ar-
raigned at the bar  of the High Court of Justiciary, on Monday the
18th day of July 1835, on a charge of wilfully, wickedly, and feloniously
mizing a quantity of arsenic in a doze of Epsom salts, which she adminis-
tered to Peter Banks or Baulks, her husband, on the 28th of April last, in
Consequence of whith he was  immediately taken violently ill, and died on or
about the same day.

The purchasing of poison by the prisoner, under the pretence of killing
rats, was proved by Mr Otto surgeon, Pathhead, by Mrs Otto, and their
daughter Sarah; and  the mixing of a whitish powder along with the salte
was deponed to by a son of the deceased by a former wife, and his severe-
poin and vomiting, and consequent death.-- Ann M'Gregor. the house-keeper
at Chesterhall, gave the prisoner a shilling as charity, and the Ottos depos-
od to the prisoner tendering a shilling in payment of the arsenic, she reciv-
tenpence in change.—Jean Scougalll, a very old woman and next door neigh-
bour, deponed to the state in which she saw the deceased, whose illness the
'prisoner said was cholera, but that he would not hear of  doctor.-—The
prisoner had a discoloured eye at the time, for which she accounted in vari-
ous ways : but she had been heard to say that her husband had struck her,
and that he would repent it.—Mr Alexander Watson, surgeon, opened the
body of the deceased, in presence of Mr J. P. Rae, upon which there was no
external marks of injury, but in the stomach there was a considerable quan-
tity of arsenic—much more than sufficient to cause death.—Mr Rae and
Professor Traill had no doubt that the deceased had died from arsenic.

The panne! was then sentenced to be executed on Monday the 3d day of
August next, at the usual place of execution in the Lawn-Market, or at
such other place as may be fixed upon by the Magistrates of the City.

The unfortunate culprit, who is of a meagre like appearance, and of about
fifty years of age, heard her awful doom pronounced with little visible dis-
composure,—Since her condemnation she has attempted to starve herself;
 she resolutely refused all food until the Friday, when she at length yielded
to the cravings of hunger,—and recommenced the course on Saturday, but
has since again given in.

Dear friend, hear my sad moaning,    
In prison I lie groaning,
By death to make atoning
	For murder of my spouse.

Take pity, now, I pray, friends.
For short, short is my stay, friends ;
I'll soon be in the clay, friends,	
	Beneath this prison house.

O when I married first, friends,
I  thought that I Was blest, friends,
But here I lie half curst, friends,
	In chains, alas! I'mbound.

Sore, sore, I now repent, friends,
For foer  to h—l I'm sent, friends;
My heart is like to rent, friends,
	I dream of devils  sound.

O, Wives, take an example.
Of bad wives I'm a sample;
When hang'd they'll on the trample.                   
	In prison under ground.

" The hour it fast approaches,"
I dread the sound of coaches—
O pity such poor wretches,
	Like me few can be found.

My Peter he had no fault—                               '
That day I drank too much malt.
Which made me mix the death salt.
	For which I'll soon be hang'd.


O pray, friends, for a mortal,
To you it can't be hurtful;
My crime it was most dreadful-
	Pray that I'll not be d--d. 

Sanderson, Printer, High Street, Edinburgh.Lamentations

as of                                                                                 

John Thomson & David Dobie,

The two unfortunate men now under sentence of Death in the Calton
Jail, and who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on the 18th of Au-
gust, 1830, and their bodies to be given to Dr. Munro for dissection,
for the assault, murder and robbery of Margaret Paterson.

David Dobie.

Taken during the Trial.



John Thomson.

Taken during the Trial.

Dear Countrymen, a warning take,
And all your lawless crimes forsake,
At our untimely fate take heed,
Who now regret each wicked deed.

The sad example keep in mind
Of us poor mortals now confin'd,
And doomed we are to hanged be
Upon the fatal gallows tree.

From bad company refrain,
Contented be with honest gain,
And holy keep the Sabbath day,
The laws of God and man obey.

Though in a dismal cell we stay,
We think time passes swift away ;
We have not long to meditate
Upon our fast approaching fate.

Now no friends our lives can spare,
Therefore to die we must prepare,
And hope the Lord will lend an ear
To us poor penitents' last prayer.

Our sorrows, ah ! no tongue can tell,
For fear of death and fear of hell ;
Yet still, through Christ, we hope to be
From all our misery set free.

Our sins, tho' they are mountains high,
Yet still unto the Lord we cry,
That he may in this trying hour
Conviction send with might and power.

A few more hours, our lives are o'er,
And we on earth shall be no more.
O ! may we pray, whilst here we live,
That Jesus may our souls receive.

For when we leave this house of clay,
We cannot then repent and pray ;
All earthly things are then in vain,
And we are doom'd to bliss or pain.

O ! that our sins may be forgiven
Before the gracious throne of Heaven,
May mercy there appear in store,
To save us when this life is o'er.

For our unjust and vicious ways,
Disgrace and shame concludes our days,
Our fathers, mothers, and all our friends
In tears lament our woeful ends.

Farewell, dear father, mother and all,
Forget our shameful end and fall;
Let not the world, in malice, name
To you our faults, our end and shame.

Remember, Lord, thy servants in distress,
O comfort us, for we are comfortless,
Pardon our sins before this world we leave,
That we a crown of glory may receive.

To think of death our hearts are fill'd with woe,
Our very eyes like fountains overflow
With melting tears, and we are much afraid
To leave this world before our peace is made.

Ere long we must before the Lord appear,
And answer for our sins committed here,
We tremble at the very thought of this,
Fearing the loss of everlasting bliss.

Justice now has overtook us,
Stopt us in our wicked race,
Guilt and horror have pursued us,
Death now looks us in the face.

See what numbers round us flocking,
Wait to see our awful fate,
But we hope for true repentance,
Mercy at the hour of death.

Judge of Judges ! King of Glory !
O how dreadful is our fate,
Summoned to appear before thee,
In this guilty awful state.

Our wild career's at last arrested,
Horrors dire our souls enthral,
By heaven and earth we seem detested,
And unpitied in our fall.

Injur'd law, in direful horror,
Shouts for vengeance o'er our head,
Which clothes the number'd hours with terror
That consigns us to the dead.

A death, of deaths the most degrading,
Stops our gasping burning breath,
Whose pangs, our hopeless souls pervading,
Daily yields a living death.

Soon, O, direful contemplation,
Shall our bodies undergo,
An ignominious laceration
'Neath the scalpel of MUNRO !            

Our soulless corses denied protection,
From their native kindred clay,
And given for public dissection,
Like to dogs or beasts of prey.

O ! King of Glory, Might and Power !
Salvation send in our last hour,
And grant that we may dwell wlth Thee
Throughout a blest Eternity !

Edinburgh:....Price One Penny.LETTER.



A Copy of a Letter regarding that  unfortunate
man, John M'Court, who is to be executed on
 Monday week, for the murder of his wife. Janet
M'Lauchlane or M'Court; together with a mel-
ancholy Lamentation on the occasion, in which,
you have a serious warning to both husbands and
wives, to beware of Drunkenness and inordinate
passions.

The following is an article taken from an Edinbro' news.
paper of  Thursday  which shews the falsity of the  current
report, that that ill fated man, John M'Court, declines taking
any food, and that on the contrary he appears to be truly
penitent and resigned to his deplorable fate.

We also Subjoin a short lamentation, shewing the state of
his mind, and containing a salutary advice to his fellow crea.
tures, warning them to Bridle their passions and abstain from
bad company and vicious habits, which too often,alas, leads
to an ignominious end.                                                         .

A report has been generally circulated that M'Court, who
is at present a prisoner in the Calton Jail, and who. has  to
undergo the extreme penalty of the law for the murder of
his wife, Janet M'Lauchlane of M'Court, has put on a resolu
tion that he will starve himself to death, in order to avoid the
ignomy of a public execution. This assertion, we are informed,
through a channel where the utmost confidence may be re-
lied on, is altogether unfounded.    We are informed that in.
stead of attempting self destruction, he listens to his Rev.
attendants with  the greatest earnestness.     Therefore, was
suicide attempted,  the clergymen would doubtless diswade   
him from such an attempt.

It is lamentable in the extreme to reflect on the depravity
of this ill fated family. Three of M'Court's sons were
banished before they had obtained the age of twelve years,
the mother murdered by her own husband, and the husband
to. be executed for the murder of  his wife. It appears that
M'Court and his wife had long lived very unhappilly together,
principally owing to her addiction to drink.

While her sons were children, she used to send.them to
the streets to beg in order to raise money to satiate her un-
hallowed cravings. If these ill fated boys proved unsuccess-
ful, she beat them most unmercifully ; they were therefore
obliged to steal in order to avoid a drubbing. Thus were
the sons of M'Court trained up to vice of every kind and at
last becoming by habit and repute thieves, they were found
by the laws of their country unfit subjects for home, and were
banished to a foreign land.

M'Court's wife, by every informatian we have been able  
to learn, was an habitual drunkard, and was often found ly.
ing in her stair, and at other times carried home,  when her
husband would do every thing   in his   power for her com,
fort.

LAMENTATION.

Come gentle readers listen all
To what I here narate ;
Take warning of my awful fall
Before it is too late.

With acking pangs within my
breast,
I tamely must submit;
O may my latter end be blest,
Although to die unfit.

Had she who suffered by my
hands
Lived sober, good, and mild,
I  never would have broke the
bands,
Nor satan me beguiled

I ever used my utmost power
In happiness to live,
And even to my latest hour,
Her faults I will forgive.

Husbands be cautious how you
use
|The partners of your love,
Beware you do not them abuse
Or death like mine t'll prove.

Wives be  ye  also   on  your
guard,
Your passions do not raise,
Of  drinking   to excess   be
spared,
Also your maker praise.

.             - Forbes and Co,Printers,               A particular Account of a most horrid Instance of  Child
murder, attended with Circumstances of the greatest Bar
barity, which was discovered at Thorney Bank  on Wed-
nesday last, when Catharine Weir,  alias M'Quarry, the
Mother, was apprehended and committed to the Tolbooth
of Glasgow on suspicion of having   perpetrated the Murder.

WE understand, by different accounts from Thorney
Bank, that the mother of the unfortunate infant
went there a few days ago in order to be delivered, as she
was acquainted with some people about the place,   having
formerly been enployed about the bleachfield there.        

It appears she did not stay long at Thorney Bank after
her delivery, but left the place rather abruptly. Whether
the woman in whose house she was delivered Knew any
thing about the inhuman transaction, we do not know, but
in that respect there are various reports, which would not
be proper to state at present. We hear her name is M'Far-
lane, and that she is  a woman of fair character.

As far as we could learn, none of the neighbours had the
smallest suspicion of the child having been murdered; there-
fore, no inquiry took place about her - and while they were
engaged at their business, as few working people have much
time to spare at present. She went off, but every person that
heard of her departure imagined that she had taken the in-
fant along with her.

But on  wednesday morning, the 6th instant, us a boy
belonging to Thorney Bank was diverting himself at the
side of a ditch, not far from the house where the child was
born, he observed the bleachfield watch-dog, snorting and
scraping up the earth in a furious manner, as if in search
of some animal that had burrowed there.

Prompted by curiosity, the boy hastened to the spot,
when he discovered the head of an infant.

Terrified at the sight, the little fellow called the dog,
run off, and immediately alarmed the neighbourhood, when
the child was taken up in a state, it is said, too shocking to
mention.

Notwithstanding the horrid appearance of the child when
taken out of the hole, into which ,it is said to, have been
put entirely, bent together, without a covering of any kind,
it is not yet known in what manner it has been put to death,
or whither the mother is the only person concerned in the
hapless fate of the little innocent.

We understand the body of the child was washed, cover-
ed, put into a coffin, and conveyed to Glasgow, and that
the mother on examination, was so strongly suspected of
having been guilty of the shocking and detestable
deed, that she has been fully committad to the jail of this
city, in order to be tried for the offence  at the next Circuit
Court of Justiciary.

It is truly lamentable to observe, the number of women
that have been lately tried, and banished from different
places of Scotland, for child-murder, and still the inhu-
man crime is committed. Go you unfeeling mothers and
learn humanity from the brute creation.

T. Duncan, Printer, saltmaret.MURDER

A Full, True, and Particular account
of that cold bloody and diabolical murder
committed on the body of Mr M 'Nab's
Post Boy, Innkeeper and Post Master in
Cupar of Fife who was barbarously mur-
dered a few yards from his Masters house
on Thursday last.

To add to the attrocities which has been lately
committed in this part of the country, we have the
painful duty to record another, apparently less pro-
voked then those which have lately taken place.
We extract the following article from the Courant
Newspaper, the authenticity of which there is no
grounds to doubt.                                       .

Early on Thursday last, a post boy in the em-
ployment of Mr M'Nab, inn. keeper,Cupar-of.Fife.
was found murdered a few doors from the Inn.
The scull was fractured, and the face much disfi-
cured, apparently from the effects of blows.

A precognition was taken by the Sheriff, but
    as yet no discovery has been made of the perpetra-
tor of the diabolical deed.                                  

Although by the above account there is no ment
tion of robbery having been intended or committed,
yet it is but reasonable, to surmise that no villain
could be so wretchedly lost to feeling as to perpe.
trate   such  a   deed  without   having   some selfish
motive to satiate.  Yet true it is that some monster
possessed of that unrelentless and reckless brutul
feeling which governs the minds of some hardened
villains, may have, through wantonness or revange
taken the life of  the individual eluded to.   It is to.
be hoped, however, that this, like most other mur-
ders, will be brought to light, and the perpetrator
brought to that iribunal where he will meet with
the punishment he so richly deserves.

EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCE.-----A few days
ago, a  traveller went into an inn at Aberdeen.
where he intended to sleep all night and proceed
on his jurney in the morning. Before going to.
bed, he laid a pair of pistols on his bedroom table,
remarking to the landlord of the inn that the pis.
 tols were loaded, and that, it would be dangerous
for any person to tutch them.              

In the morning, when the traveller awoke, he
went to the stable to look after his horse and found
that  it hadcast a shoe.   He went to a smith's shop
to get it shed, which was done ; he discoverd
that one of his pistols wanted a screw, and requested
the smith to put one in its place, intimeting to him
at the same time that it was loaded. Vulcan put the
barrel of the pistol to his mouth and blew into it,
observing that it was not  loaded.    The traveller
on examining it  and the other pistol, found that
the shot had been extracted. Suspecting that some
conapiracy was intended, he again loaded the pis-
tols, and proceeded on his journey.

On arriving at a thick set wood a few miles from
town, two men came towards him, carrying blud.
geons in their  hands and demanded his purse. He
immediately fired one of the pistols over their
heads to intimidate them, but the robbers being
still  intent upon their felonious purpose, he shot
one of them dead upon the spot.

It can be easily surmised, and with safely, that
the landlord of the house had some concorn in the
intended robbery.

FORBES & Co: Printers;171, Cowgate.Murder and Robbery.

An Account of a most Horrid Murder,
supposed to be commited on the body
of Mr MARK Dow, a respectab Shoe-
maker in Leith Street, Edinburgh, on
Wednesday Evening the 10th or early ,

on Thursday morning, the 11th Jan-
uary,1827, who was found dead near-
ly naked, at  the bottom of a stair,
north west corner of Bank Street, with
& large wound on h s head.

Edin. 12th January, 1827.

The following account of this horrible transac-
tion is copied from the " Edinhurgh Observer,"
Newspaper of this day, which is the only authentic
notification yet published of this melancholy affair.

" A  VERY extraordinary sensation ware    ated
   throughout this city, caused by the report
of a most respectable tradesman, Mr Mark Dow,
Shoemaker, Leith Street, having been found mur-
dered, about one o'clock that morning.    The facts
of this catastrophe, as far as can yet be learned, are
shortly these :—On Wednesday Mr Dow was pre
sent at a dinner in Mrs Ferguson's Tavern, Lawn-
market,  of the incorporation  of Shoemakers, of
which incorporation he was Treasurer.   He left the
Tavern about eleven o'clock, with upwards of £40
in cash, besides a bill for a considerable amount, in
his possession, apparently sober; and by a quarter
past one o'clock of the following morning he was
found, without coat, vest, hat, and shoes, lying dead
at the bottom of a stair at the north west corner of
Bank-Strret, with a large wound on his head, from
which a considerable quantity of blood had flowed,
but there was no contusion.    Near the stair, but
round the corner, is a house from the door of which
there  is a sort of subterraneous  communication
with the stair where Mr Dow was found.    The
landlord of this house, it is said was out on some
bussiness, and was returning home, and not getting
admission by the usual entrance, intending to get
to round  by this passage,  went  down  stairs,  and
stumbled over the body of Mr Dow.    He imme-
diately gave information to a watchman, and the
corpse was conveyed to the Police Office.

An active shrewd officer of that establishment,
named Smail, being out, and hearing a man state
that a murder had been commited, and that the
informent had seen the hat of the unhappy sufferer
burnt, contrived to get the narrator of the tale in-
duced to go to the Police Office, from whence he
and a party was dispatched to the before-mentioned
house, where they found a quantity of ashes, which
they presumed were the remains of the hat and
vest; and, upon examination, the coat and shoes, a
small sum of money, and the bill were found.

Four or five different individuals are now in cus-
tody,and the Sheriff has instated an inquiry into
the. circumstances.

Mr Dow was, we understand, a widower, and
has left a family of five children."

Printed for Wm. Henry------Price One Penny;

Murder and Robbery.

An Account of a most Horrid Murder,
supposed to be commited on the body
of Mr MARK Dow, a respectable Shoe-
maker in Leith Street, Edinburgh, on
Wednesday Evening the 10th, or early
on Thursday morning, the 11th Jan-
uary, 1827, who was found dead near-
ly naked,  at the bottom of a stair,
north west corner of Bank Street, with
a large wound on his head.

Edin. 12th January, 1827.

The following account of this horrible transac-
tion is copied from the " Edinburgh Observer,"
Newspaper of this day, which is the only authentic
notification yet published of this melancholy affair.

"A VERY extraordinary sensation was repeated
throughout this city, caused by the report
of a most respectable tradesman, Mr Mark Dow,
Shoemaker, Leith Street, having been found mur-
dered, about one o'clock that morning.    The faces
of this cutastrophe, as far as can yet be learned, are
shortly these :—On Wednesday Mr Dow was pre-
sent at a dinner in Mrs Ferguson's Tavern, Lawn-
market,  of the  incorporation  of Shoemakers,  of
which incorporation he was Treasurer.   He left the
Tavern about eleven o'clock, with upwards of £40
in cash, besides a bill for a considerable amount, in
his possession, apparently sober; and by a quarter
past one o'clock of the following  morning he was
found, without coat, vest, hat, and shoes, lying dead
at the bottom of a stair at the north west corner of
Bank-Strret, with a large wound on his head, from
which a considerable quantity of blood had flowed,
but there was no contusion.    Near the stair, but
round the corner, is a house, from the door of which
there  is  a sort of subterraneous  communication
with the stair where Mr Dow was. found.    The
landlord of this house, it is said was  out on some
bussiness, and was returning home, and not getting
admission by she usual entrance, intending to get
round   by this passage,  went  down   stairs,  and
stumbled over the body of Mr Dow.    He imm-
diately gave information  to a watchman, and the
corpse was conveyed to the Police Office.

An active shrewd officer of that establishment
named Smail, being out, and hearing a man state
that a murder had been commited, and that the
informent had seen the hat of the unhappy sufferer
burnt, contrived to get the narrator of the tale in-
duced to go to the Police Office, from whence he
and a party was dispatched to the before-mentioned
house, where they found a quantity of ashes, which
they presumed were the remains of the hat and
vcst; and, upon examination, the coat and shoes, a
small sum of money, and the bill were found.

Four or fire different individuals are now in cus-
tody, and the Sheriff has instuted an  inquiry into
the circumstances.                                      

Mr Dow was, we understand, a widower   and
has left a family of five children."

Printed for Wm. Henry-----Price One PennyMurderous  Outrage
IN FIFE!

A Full and Particular Account of that most Murder-
ous Outrage that was committed on the body of
George M'Donald, a flax-dresser belonging to
Dundee, by a person of the name of Robert Dems-
ter, a plasterer and slater from Cupar.

George M'Donald, a flax-dresser, belonging to Dundee, who has
for a considerable time been unable to follow his occupation, owing
to his having received a shock of the palsy about a fortnight ago,
left Dundee, and went to Dysart on a visit to his sister, who resides
in the latter place. He set out from Dysart last Wednesday mor-
ning, purposing to return to Dundee, and get a ride in a cart as far
as Craigrothie. Being, as he says, (for this statement is from his
own mouth,) very cold, he went into a public-house kept by a per-
son of the name of Cooper, and asked for half a gill of whisky. He
was shown into a room, where one Robert Demster, a plasterer and
slater from Cupar, waa sitting, and immediately engaged in conver-
sation. After having finished their whisky, they set out together,
purposing to go to Ceres ; when about half way to Ceres, and al-
most opposite Weymss Hall gate, Demster asked M'Donold for the
loan of a sixpence, and assured him he would get it when he got
to Cupar, alleging as a reason for this request, that] he had been
long out of employment, and was very scarce of money. M'Don-
ald said he was a poor man and had no money. Demster then
said, " Oh, I saw you have plenty of money when we were in
Craigrothie." M'Donald then said I am thinking I will be surer of
my money if I keep it in my pocket. Demster then said, " If you
do not give me it I will knock you down," and held up his ham-
mer (a slater's hammer) in a menacing manner. M'Donald then
said, you surely dinna intend to strike me with that." " Perhaps
I will, replied Demster. M'Donald getting alarmed, cried out
" you surely do not intend to murder me." " Yes I do," was the
answer, he sprung on him and inflicted repeated blows with
the hammer onhis head. Perceiving, however, two females coming
up, he pushed the body into a ditch and fled, throwing his ham-
mer over the wall, into one of the Parks adjoining to Wemyss
Hall. The ladies, when they came up, observed the unfortunate
man, and endeavoured to lift him, but were unable to do so. They
however, soon obtained assistance, and the unfortunate man was
carried to house in Ceres kept by one Ellen Howie, where he-now
lies in a very dangerous state, with very little prospect of his re-
covery.

" Mrs Cooper, who keeps the public house in Craigrothie, says,
that they were both nearly drunk, and that when they left her
house, Demster was intending to go to Cupar, and M'Donald to
Ceres. Another person who passed the two on the road, says, that
when she passed them were quarrelling about something, but can-
not say what it was about. It is reported that Demster, after pe-
petrating the deed, hastened to Cupar, went to the Jail, and told
the Jailor to take him in, as he had mundered a man. The Jailor,
however, told he could not take him in without a warrant. Dem-
ster then went to his friends, and having taken a second thought
made his escape, and has not since been heard of. Placards are,
however, posted up through the whole country, and there is little
doubt of his apprehensson. M'Donald is a poor lame object; he
was bred a flax-dresser a few miles south from Edinburgh, and fol-
lowed this occupation until he sustained a stroke of the palsy
which has deprived him of the power of the whole of his left side
and arm. He usuelly resides iu Dundee, and receives five shillings
per week from a fund in that town."

Price One Penny.

SHOCKING AND DISGRACEFUL

MURDER

Full, true and particular Account of the horrid
and cruel Murder of James Gough of the
Roval Artillery, who was barbarously stoned
to death by three men, on Sunday night;
Together with the apprehension of the
Murderers.

Taken from this Day's Observer, Aug. 14.

A dreadful Murder was committed near Ballin-
tyne, on Sunday night, the perpetrators of which
we expect will be shortly brought to answer for
the crime at the bar of justice.    The facts   as
they were stated to us; are—some countrymen
had been drinking at the canteen up to 8 o'clock, 
at  which  time they were ordered to retire to
their   homes,   but  one refused,   asserting   that
 he  would  not be  put out  by any soldier."
This led to some altercation, and when  the or-
derly non-commissioned officer told them he was
directed to  make them quit, they  still persisted
in refusing, which induced him to take the most
refractory fellow by the  collar to  send him out
of the room     This man struck the orderly, and
a scuffle ensued, when some of the guard, com-
posed  of Lancers, came up and cleared the can-
teen.    When the countrymen were quitting the
barrack gate, some of them were heard to  say,
that they would revenge themselves on the first;
soldier  they  would  meet.    Shortly   after   this,
and before 9 o'clock, three artillery soldiers were
returning to barracks from a walk, when two of
them   being   about thirty  yards of advance   of
their comrade, the country fellows saluted them
with " Goodnight, boys," which the soldiers re-
turned ;  but they  had only proceeded a short
distance,   when they heard a cry of " dont hurt
or   kill   the   man," they,   accordingly, returned
back to the assistance of their comrade,  but too
late, for the brutal ruffians actually stoned him—
and he survived only a few hours.    Major Gal-
wey, Inspector of the Cons'ublary, and Magis-
trate of the couny, has apprehended several per-
sons who are strongly   suspected  being of the
party, and through his exertions sanguine hopes are enter-
tained, that  in it few days all the Murderers will be in cus-
tody.

An Inquest will be held on the body to-day, when much
important information is expected to be elicited. The crime
has caused great generation in that neighbourhood, and filled 
the minds of all with horror and disgust.

The deceased  was a young man named Gough, and bore
an excellent character in the company.

FORBKS & CO. PRINTERS,   171,  COWGATEShocking, Murder !



Account of one of the most Shocking Murders ever
read of, committed by JOHN M.   WIL IAMS,
at Milledgeville, on the Body of his own Wife, by
Stabbing her in several parts of the Body, and cut-
ting her Throat from Ear to Ear; also an account
of his  Murdering his own  Infant only Fight days
old, by dashing it on  the ground,  and  throwing it
over the window, on Tuesday the 8th of January,
1824; likewise an account of the gailant manner in
which he was seized by a servant Girl.

Last evening, we were summoned to witness a scene, from which
Humanity recoils with horror and indignation ! a scene, perhaps
without a parallel since the first organization of civil society.    The
Circumstances are as follow : it appears that there had been a fish-
ing party during the day, composed, perhaps, of relations, and
friends, and accquaintance, of which party John M. Williams, the
person who committed the cruel, shocking and inhuman deed, was
one.    On their return in the evening, accompanied by his brother-
in-law and his wife, he appeared to be in an ill-humour with his
wife, and descended even to abuse ; but by the friendly interposi-
tion and good offices of the company there present, he desisted for
that time, and the storm, that appeared lowering, passed over with-
out leaving any vestiges idicative of its recurrence; but alas ! it
was a, most fatal security, into which he had lulled their suspicions !
When about to depart, he bade the sister of the wife, in an impres-
sive manner, to bid her farewell; but not suspecting the import of
this prophetic observation, they proceeded homewards.

Before they had been absent fifteen minutes, he commenced the
execution of his diabolical design, by upbraiding her with incon-
rinency, and ended his insulting ;and abusive language, by stabbing
her in the body with a clasp knife, which inflicted a deep wound
in her shoulder. She immediately fled, but in consequence of her
debility, occasioned by her having given birth to an innocent child,
then not a fortnight old, he easily overtook her, and with a tremen-
dous blow, brought her senseless to the ground.

Commanding the assistance of a servant girl, who was close at
hand, he conducted her to the house, and placed her on the bed,
when animation was soon restored ; he then with the most unex-
ampled ferocity, caught hold of his sleeping and in innocent infant,
and with savage and unrelenting fury, dashed it with violence on
the ground, and again taking it by the legs, threw it forcibly over
the window into the yard behind the house.

Returning to the bed side, with his knife drawn and stained with
blood, he recommenced his abuse of his wife, and endeavoured to
extort confessions, by repeatedly stabbing her, renewing his inqui-
ries with a hellish satisfaction at each successive stab, while the
miserable victim of his cruelty, protested her innocence, and implor-
ed his mercy with tears and intreaties, sufficient to have softened
the most savage breast.

The servant girl, overcome with sympathy, profiting by his posi-
tion, seized him, and pushed him out at the door, thereby giving
to Mrs Williams an opportunity to make her escape, which she em-
braced with as much alacrity as her weakened and wounded situa-
tion would admit of, and had fled perhaps about fifty yards, when
the unfeeling monster overtook her, and dragging her by the hair
of the head to a considerable distance, put an end to her life, by
cutiing her throat from ear to ear, in the most cruel and shocking
manner ever witnessed.

By this time, the alarm had reached the nearest neighbour, who
hastened directly to the scene of misery. The murderer, by this
time had exchanged tho knife for a razor, and kneeling down in she
attitude of prayer beside the body of his murdered wife, was en-
deavouring to dispatch himself ; he had completed part of his
design, but finding the task more difficult than that of murdering
his wife, he only succeeded in making a slight incision in the wind-
pipe, when his hand was arrested, and it is hoped will recover,
answer before an earthly tribunal for the perpetration of this unna-
tural deed Four helpless Children bewail the loss of their mother.
Examiner, 9th January, 1823. Edinburgh, Printed, Price One Penny.

SUSPECTED

MURDERS.



A Full, True, and Particular Account of the discovery of no less than
Four Dead Bodies, on Saturday last, in different parts of Edinburgh,
under violent suspicion of one or more of them having been mur
dered,-namely, the body of Alexander Kennedy, fifty.one years of
age, found in Hunter's Close, Grassmarket, with the full particu
lars of his death, the  apprehension of a man on suspicion, and a
precognition going on.—the finding of the body of a young  woman
in Princes Street, packed up in a box-the  finding of the    body of
an infant near the Canal Basin, with a stone bound to it by     awel
—and the finding of the body of another infant in the Canongate
Church Yard.

About one o'clock on Sunday morning, one of the watchmen in the
Grassmarket, found, in Hunter's Close, Grassmarket, the body of a
man, not  yet cold, but quite dead.

The body was immediately conveyed to the Police Office, and   sub
jected to medical inspection; but it was found that the vita! spark
had for ever fled.

The body was at once recognized to be that of Alexander Kennedy,
a sort of itinerant barber, well known to almost the whole population           
of the City,—he having been many years a drummer in the Edin-
burgh Gentlemen Volunteers. He was afterwards a Serjeant in, the
Army, but for many years past he has again resided in this City, in the
enjoyment of a pension.

The deceased was fifty one years of age, and lodged in a house in
Aird's close, Grass'market, which is the next close east from that in
which the deceased was found lying dead-

There were found in the pockets of the deceased, nothing but-an
old razor and a little tobacco.

From the most careful information we have been able to collect,, it
appears that the  deceased had been drinking during a great part of
Saturday in the premises of a Spirit Dealer, near to the spot in which
his dead body was afterwards discovered-    He was seen in that situa-
tion during periods of the day by some of his fellow lodgers and other
persons and it is alleged that at night he was seen lying his back
drunk and asleep, on the floor of the Spirit dealer's premises-

While  the  unfortunate man   was in this  helpless, and (from the
quantity of strong drink be had already swallowed), dangerous condi
tion, it seems that a man had been at once so brutal and so imprudent,
as to pour into his   mouth a further quantity of spirits,— mixed, it is
said, with another fluid of a disgusting nature  and which decency for.
bids to be named.

Whether the unfortunate man died very soon after this, and while
he was Still lying on the floor of the premises in Which, he had been
drinking,—and whether, after being asccrtained. be dead, he was
then carried out of the spirit shop, and laid down in the situation in
which he was found,—or whether he was still alive, or was supposed
to be still alive, when he was carried out, --or whether he had been
subjected to any further ill usage than that of pouring the whisky,
&.C-, into his mouth,—are, points that are not yet perfectly deter-
mined.

The authorities, however, immediately instituted the most prompt .
and careful investigation into the circumstances of the case.    At so
late an hour as ten o'clock "last night, the Sheriff and  Captain Stuart
were on the spot, inquiring into the facts of the case ; and a precogni- •
lion will be. taken before the Sheriff this day-

There being circumstances of suspicion about this painful and rather
mysterious affair, an individual was ordered to be taken into custody,
last night, and to abide the consequences of the legal investigation
which is now; giving on.                                                               

By those who saw the body of the deceased, when it was laid out,
we are informed that it appeared to be that of a person who had
previously been" in perfect health, -being, though' not tall, strongly
formed, and fat There was a flush on the countenance, as if the blood
had been impelled in to the head by suffocation. The features, however,
were remarkably composed and placid.

The body of an infant, under still stronger circumstances of suspi.
oion than those attending the death of poor Kennedy, was found on
Saturday in Grove-street, or Wellington-street, near the Canal Basin.
There was nothing upon this body except a towel wrapped round its
middle ;—and (very suspiciously) a stone was found between the
towel and the body, pressing on the abdomen.—The remains of the
helpless infant were conveyed to the Police Office, -where they still
remain.

On Saturday, also, a coffin containing the body of a dead infant was
found in the Canongate Church Yard, about two o'clock. It is sup-
posed to have been thrown into the Church Yard, over the wall.

And, on Saturday forenoon, upon the arrival of one of the Glasgow
coaches, the Policeman on duty ascertained that a box brought into
the city contained a dead body. He also recognized,, in one of the
persons loitering about, a well known Glasgow resurrectionist. The
resurrectionist he immediately apprehended ; and he employed a por-
ter to carry the box and its contents to the Police O.hce. The body
was found to be that of a stout young woman with red hair.. Decom-
position of the body has proceeded so far, that its smell is very ob
noxious. It still remains at the Poli e Office, with the bodies of Ken-
nedy, and the infant found near the Canal Basin. The resurrectionist
Having denied all knowledge of the matter, was of course set at liberty.



Forbes and Owen Printer,118 High street.THE GILMERTON

MURDERS

Here you have the Melancholy and Penitent Address to the Public,
by David Dobie and John Thomson, dated from their Cells in the
Catlon Jail, where they are now awaiting the execution of their sen-
tence on Wednesday morning next ;--and also, an affecting Letter
written by David Dobie to his Wife.   

Melancholy Address of Dobie and Thomson, with Dobie's Letter
to his Wife.

The following is the copy of a letter, wrote by David Dobie to his
wife, and to the Father of the unfortunate woman whom they mur-
dered : —

" Dear Wife —I write these lines to you, hoping you may receive
some consolation from them. This is the only comfort that I can be-
stow, to let you know the state of my mind ; although my guilt does
stare me in the face, I trust God will be merciful to me a humble peni-
tent ; although my hands are stained with the blood of the innocent,
I trust the blood of Christ will wash me from all my guilt.

" I am quite resigned to my fate ; I forgive all mine enemies, and
I trust they will also forgive me ; I die in peace with all men. You
will not have the melancholy satisfaction of laying my body in the
dust; but I beg as a last request that you do not grieve on that ac-
count, as these dry bones may yet live to future glory, where man
cannot scatter. Shew this letter to the aged father of Margaret Pa-
terson, whose hoary head we have brought with sorrow to the grave.
We sincerely implore his forgivenness, which is a poor consolation
for the loss of a daughter he held so dear, which, by our wicked hearts
has left him to bewail the loss of a child, and you a faithless hus-
band.

" Give my last respects to all my friends and comrades, and to the
grace of God I leave them and you for ever.—Farewell."
			
				" Edinburgh Jail, 28th July.

" With sorrow we announce  to the Public and our comrades who
know us,—though the  enormity of our crimes is  already known in
part, which were of the rudest and deepest dye—with regret we may
state that our brutal crime was one in which there was neither manli-
hood nor shame, for the unfortunate female came  with us for protec-
tion, but like Judas we betrayed trust, and imbrued our hands in the
blood of the innocent, which is now required at our hands, and a guilty
conscience stares us in the face. Such are the horrors we endure with-
in this gloomy solitary cell.    Solitary indeed is our dwelling; by our
guilty deeds we are hid from the face of man ; no more  the blessed
sun may cheer us with his light; our end is decreed, in judgment for
our own wicked lust and wicked hands.    We sinned in secret, but the
voice of our sister's blood cried from the ground that we should be
punished openly.    Disgraceful indeed were  our  doings, and an out-
rage to all proper feelings in   society.    But  alas ! remorse comes too
late ; our sandglass is turned; and the numbered hours of our life are
swiftly running; every throbbing pulse announces their fleetness, and
our beating hearts our guilt.    No more shall we behold the beams of
the morning,   nor  feel the evening dew fall  upon us; we water our
couch with tears.    Fettered with chains of iron, but alas, loaded still
heavier with the chains of sin, that sink to perdition, we must suffer an
ignominious death, and be publicly anatomised ; to the shame and dis-
tress of our agonised parents, whom we should have held dear to us,
and been the means of supporting in their declining years,   The sen-
tence of an earthly judge we fear not, he can only kill the body; but
there is another trial before us, by that infinite Judge that will give to
every man according to his works, and hath said,  'Cursed is every
man that hangeth on a tree.'    But yet our hope is in a merciful God,
and should this come into the hands of any individual, who like us is
plunged in vice of the most horrid and abandoned  nature, shunning
all the paths of virtue, and lost to every thing that is becoming and
laudable in this world, think, O think in time.

" When we recal to mind the many idle spent Sabbaths—the
Church we often neglected, and passed it by as if it were a ruinous
neap, and making scoff of such as attended it while we went into the
public house, and were there wallowing in all the abominations the
human mind can picture—we now, like Dive, ' Lift up our eyes and
see Lazarus afar off in the bosom of Abraham comforted, while we
are tormented.' But we thank God we are yet in hell, which we
have so often escaped ; a guilty conscience and death, with all its
ghastly terrors staring us in the face, is but a faint picture of the hor-
rible thoughts that distract our minds regarding our future fate, when
our guilt confronts us in all its direful forms. Were we to breathe
our last on a death-bed, surrounded by those who were dear to us, and
our hands unstained with blood, it would be nothing in comparison to
going to the scaffold with such a load of crime upon our heads, and
dying by the hands of the executioner. Oh that it were in our power
to recal that mis spent time which we have squandered away in the
paths of vice. Had we a thousand worlds, or all the filthy allurements
attendant upon them, it would make no compensation for our guilt
and waste of time which cannot be recalled into eternity. We sin-
cerely trust that this our dying advice will have a lasting effect upon
our comrades, and those who are running headlong in the ways of sin,
making the Sabbath a pastime and a day of unhallowed pleasure, and
beholding the Bible as a looking glass ; for which, you may depend,
if not repented of, an account will be required hereafter."

Forbes and Owen, Printer, 118, High Street.THE HADDINGTON  MURDERS!

The Life, History, and Transactions of Robert Emonds, with his Confession of the manner in
which he committed the Murders; also the Life and History of his wife, and Mrs Franks and
her daughter; together with the full particulars of Emond's Behaviour and Conversation in
the Jail up to this day,, Monday 15th February.

IN laying before our readers the
following particulars respect-
ing Emond, we assure them that
they contain the substance of e-
very thing- that has transpired re-
garding that individual and his
unfortunate victims. To a gentle-
man in the jail, the North Briton
Newspaper,and a native of Selkirk
we are endebted for our informa-
tion.

We shall therefore commence
with the history of Emond, as re-
lated to us by a school-fellow of
his own. Emond was born in Sel-
kirk, his father was a labourer,
and both his parents were account-

ed people of quiet and bonest dis-

positions. While at school Emond
 showed various examples of his
cunning and ferocity, and would

punished for faults which his low

self to them. He was universally
hated and feared by his play fel-
lows, and so fiendish his disposi-
tion, that he was generally known
by the nick-name of the Fiend.
From the general hatred borne
to him in the village, through his
own hypocritical and disobliging
manner, he left it in the early part
of his life, and entered into his
majesty's service. After being
discharged, he returned to his
mother's, his father having died:

his demeanour was uncommon

good, attended divine worship re-
signs of inebriety. Having paid
attention to his education, and
could write a very good hand /ill/with
 a knowledge of Arithmetic, and
at the same time very sensible in

his conversation on a varicty of

topics, he was advised to open a 
school in the village, which, he did

for some time; but as this is an 

employment not congenial to per- 

sons of a ferocious and impatient

temperament, his cruelty soon
left his benches unocoupied. This
plan failing, he purchased a quan
tity of worsted, and other soft
goods, with which he travelled

 During  his  peregrenations  as  a

packman, he met with his present

wife who was know for many 

years all over the border by the
name of Highland Mary: she
was brought up on the Duke of
Gordon's estates, and came to
North Berwick as a Highland
shearer, and by industry and fru-
gality, by travelling with a pack,

she was  known often to have a

stock of Lace, silk mercery, and

other fashionable haberdashery
goods, worth from three to tour
hundred pounds. Her partiality
for Emonds astonished those who

were acquainted with them, and

his great sobriety and steadiness,
and being in possession of a pack
also Pretty valuable ; he was nev-
er seen to join in that social and
jocular bursts of good humour so
characteristic of scotch pedlars,
and which makes them receive so
hearty a welcome to the farmer's
blazing ingle. It is only three
yeare since Emond and his wife
took up house, first in Suderland
and then in North Berwick, and
it is said, with what truth we
know not, that their children were
born before their marriage was
publicly acknowledged. They
were far from being happy toge-
ther, as they had continud bick-
erings, and his usage of her was
very harsh.; in fact, her spiri was
so much broke down by him that
from  the neat, clean, and tildy
appearance she was always 
markable for, she become sloven-

ly and quite careless of herself
she found her profits disappearing

without knowing where, although
she was in possession of a very
good business, until she saw E-

mond abstracting cash daily from

the drawer and hiding  it in a
coal cellar, where he had kept a

hoard for some time.

His  wife   and   her sister Mrs
Franks  had   a  considerable sum

of money deposited in a bank in

thier joint names. this sum,above

two hundred pounds. Emond was

wishing to get hold of to enter in.

to a speculation which he said

would make his fortune. the

obstinate refusal of Mrs Franks,
and the repeated advice she gave
to her sister Dot to consent to it
was the reason he bore Mrs F.
such deadly enmity; and it was

for antipathy against the haber-
dasher in the south, who supplied
Emond with goods, and whose
advice was asked by the sisters,
Under the influence of this feeling
he meditated revenge on the par-
ties and on the sunday before he
committed the horrid deeds, he
had a serious quarrel with his wife

on the subject, and so savage was

his determination that he actually
forced her to the side of a deep

draw well and was in the act of

throwing her bodily into it, when
she was happily rescued by a
woman who had heard her stiffled
cries The following is his own

account of the manner in which he

accomplished the murders:

During   the   evening stricken
with  remorse for his usage of his

wife, he determind to be reveng-

ed on the person he believed to be
the cause of his domestic disquieti-
tude, and accordingly left his

ing she door inside, to make  his
family believe that he was in bed,
and set out for Abbey with a pre-
determined purpose to murder Mrs
Franks. When he reached the
cottage he knocked at the garden
door, at the same time announcing

himeself, and Mrs Franks knowing

his voice, after a short time ad-
mitted him. 'T hen Emond con-
trived to lead her into convers-
ation, and having thus thrown
her off her guard, he struck her a
violent blow with a bludgeon,
which however, had not the effect
of stunning or depriving her of her
senses; for, strong with terror
and the love of life, she ran out
of the house and fled towards
the garden-door, pursued by

Emond. He overtook her near

the pigstye, seized hold of her,
cut her throat with his penknife

and then threw her into the pig- 
stye. He next bethought him
self that Magdalene Franks was
still alive and might bear wit.
ness against him ; so having dis-
patched her mother, be instantly
returned to the house, and beat in
the brains of the daughter with
some heavy instrument which he
calls a bludgeon, but which, from
the nature of the wounds indicted
must have had sharp angles. He

had no sooner done so. however,

then he was struck with remorse,

and in order to conceal from his
view the shattered head of his in-

nocent victim he covered it up

hastily with the  carpet. And hav-
ing thus murdered Magdalene
Franks, he took a table knife dab-
bed it in blood, stuck on it some,
gray bairs, torn from the bead of
Mrs Franks, in order to creat a
 belief that the  murders had  been
perpetrated by this instrument,
and. then threw it carelessly from
him.

Emond is about 36 years of age,
of a thin make and middle sized;
the following is a correct portrait.

Mrs Franks enjoyed a pension
from the present Lord Elcbo's
grandfather, the earl of Wemyss,
whom her husband had long serv-
ed in the capacity of butler; to
this person his lordshiplately made
an addition. She was of a kind
and obliging disposition.
Magdalene was about fifteen years
of age, and remarkably pretty, at-
tentive to her lessons, and shewed
considerable aptness for the ac-
quisition of knowledge; she was
uncommonly dutiful to her mother
and to her acquaintances kind and
obliging; she was also very tiddy
and neat in her dress, and it was
affecting to observe her parasol,
frills, reticule, and sundry other
article, of wearing apparel lying
in the same state of careful order
in which she had left them, neatly
folded and covered, with handker-
chiefs, probably not many hours
before her young head was literally
shattered by the deadly blows of a
ferocious murderer- Indeed, from

all we have learned of her. Mag-
dulere Franks appears to have
can a single child of nature the
more interesting that he was just

ursting   into   womanhood:   She

was the favourite of every body ;
her beauty. her innocence, her
eleverness, her good humour and
narivele engaged the good will of
all whowere aceqneinted with her.
the old woman who streaked the
two bodies remarked that "Mag-

dalene Frank was the pride or

the village for her modest demean-

our. and friendly way in which she
reated all who had the pleasure of
ceing her. Mrs Franks has a

younger daughter surviving. and

lives with her aunt, Mrs Emonds,

who still retains the same premis-

es in North Berwick but she has

resumed her maiden name and got
Magdalene Munro" printed on
the sign-board above her shop door.

Emond appeared quite compos-
ed during his trial, and after he
left the Court he remained silent
ill he had entered the Lock-np-
house, when he begged the turn-
key lor a draught of water, which
was given him ; alter which he ask
ed for bread, which be also got
and ate greedily. He then demand
ed  his day's aliment, to purchase
pens, ink, and paper, and after
seme talk with Christie the turnkey
received sixpence in lieu of it He
exclaimed much against the evi-

dence of Tait saying he never

made such a declaration as that

fellow swore to, to any person on

earth, or until that moment when

he acknowledged his guilt and
snidhe felt, much relieved in con-
ed to my fate' He ascribed bis

the southside who he believed was
the cause of the mischief between
him and his wife; but he had
determined to publish the whole
history of the ease, as well as how

the munder were done, and the

great provocation he got Nothing
he said grieved him so much as the
thought of his poor mother, who
lives in Selkirk, and is now up-

wards of foursconre, as he was sure

his unhappy fate would bring her

to the grave. He had also a brother

he said for whom he was also a brother

While eating his brand be ob-
served, " You may perhaps think

I am a hardened man, but you are

mistaken, Iam not ; and although
there can be no pardon in my case
from man, there is pardon from
the Almighty, and to that I trust.
About 5 o'clock tuesday morning.
Emond was brought to the Calton
Jail from the Lock-up-hoUse in a

hackney coach : on alighting and
entering the ontler gate, and ap-
pearing to be in a very cheerful
and communicative mood, with A
great deal of levity in his manner
and bearing, be was accosted by
an individual present as follows  -
Emond, I think you onght to drop
that levity now'. He replied, Mr

-----I ,am happier now than I have

been since I was in  jail'    Mr-----

then said,  I hope you are eased of
a burden by having made confes-
son, of the facts. To which he
answered, I never-denied them,
but  have to acknowledge the jus-
tice of God in all things.' Mr-----

then said, ' Emond are you guilty
of the murders or not ?' He repli-
ed in the affirmative;  I am the

man who committed the murder

for which I am justly condemned.
He several times repeated the
words. God is just in all I his ways,
with reference to his own case;
this took place on his way from the
gate to his cell, After the trial

was over a bed was made down

for him: on his entering the cell

and looking at the bed, he said,' I
suppose you have been prepared
for me during the day.' He was
answered 'Not so; the preparations

have only been made since the

trial was concluded.' He then
submitted very quietly to bo
ironed. During this appaling con-
versation his firmness and self-
possession continued unshaken,
and he slept soundly for several
hours thereafter.

Emond frankly confesses that
he intended to commit suicide if
his trial went against him, but on
reading one of Doddridge's works
given him by a humane individual,

convinced him that such an act 

would only add one crime more to

the catalogue of his enormities.
His nights are passed in broken
slumbers, from which he generally
awakes in hurried starts, betraying
an awful state of mind which he
feels himself quite unable to de-
scribe. In the daytime he exhibits

the same restlessness and uneasi-

ness, and is haunted by the phan-
toms of his bleeding victim, until
his mind,overwhelmed by midnight
visions and day dreams of guilt
and punishment becomes excited
to a state bordering on frenzy,
under the influence of which he
talks wildly and incoherently; but
these paroxysms are seldom of very

long continuance, as he generally

finds relief in tears, and when he

his   mind  is somewhat  cased,  he

resumes his natural manner. He

done not seem much concerned

when the murder of Mrs Franks
is mentioned, but whenever the
name of Magdalene Franks is men.
tioned, or the idea shoots across
his mind, he is immediately seized
with the most dreadful fits of dis
pair, and exclaims, 'The innocent
blood calls for vengeance The
miserable wretch has not yet ex.
plained in what way he left the
premises When speaking of the
pen knife, he said ' Little did the
superintendent of police for Had-
ilington ken what the whittle did
which be carries in his pocket. To
those pious men who visit him he
converses freely- and seems anxious
to apply himself in the only way
that will entitle him to hope for
the pardon of his sins.

Glass, Printer 9,S Niddry street, Edinburgh.The Recent Gilmerton

MURDER!



The Latest Account of interesting par-
ticulars relative to these most Iniqui-
tous and Horrid Transactions, winch
lately took place near Gilmerton, in

 the county of Edinburgh.

( Extracted from the North Briten Newspaper of this way, Wed-
nesday, 5th May 1830.)

" Dobbie, we hear, has offerred to peach. This we were quite
prepared for. In the smithy at Greenend, we stated in our las 
he attempted, in the presence of one Paterson a labourer, and the
smith whose name we have forgotten, to represent the lad Thom-
son as the principal delinquent , and there can be little doubt, we
should think, that the disposition to screen himself by inculpating
his accomplice has not been lessened since he fell into the hands of
the law. But supposing Dobbie to have made a tender of his ser-
vices as King's evidence, which we think extremely probable, will
they be accepted ?

" On renewing our inquiries and investigations into this most
lamentable case, we have learned that the carters and the woman
did not remain above two hours in the public-house near Gray-
field toll ; that they entered sometime after 'seven and departed be-
tween nine and ten o'clock, taking, as we formerly stated, the Craigs'
road. Our previous information had  led us to conclude that they
did not take their departure till about an hour later, or between ten
or eleven o'clock. When they entered the public-house, which is
kept by one Pentland, the woman " lit her pipe at the ribs of the
grate," in which was a fire, and one of the men saying that they
were " yaup," (hungry) asked if they could get a herring. During
the time they remained in Pentland's, it is alleged that they had
only three gills of whisky, for one of "which the woman paid three-
pence. But Margaret Paterson told her parents, while on her death-
bed, that they had four gills, and that" she paid in all tenpence. The
people in Pentland's, however, say that she seemed to have got a
dram before she came to their house, although she did not appear
in any degree cut or intoxicated, but, on the contrary, " quite sen-
sible." While they remained in Peatland's the men treated her
well, and there was nothing particular in their conversation or con-
duct towards her. On leaving, they said to Pentland, that " they
were going to give the woman a ride in the cart."

" It may serve to give some idea of the total absence of any thing
like moral feeling among the Gilmerton carters generally, who in-
deed are nearly all of them of the same " mark and likelihood," if
we state that they continue to treat this matter lightly, thinking
that, because the two members of their fraternity charged with this
atrocious crime were " the waur o' drink," they will not be held re-
sponsible for what they may have done under its influence. Indeed,
they look upon it altogether as a drunken frolic, which can scarcely
entail upon those concerned in it any heaver visitation than a short
durance at hard labour in Bridewell; and hence, while Dobbie and
Thomson were confined in the Lock-up-house, the wife of the
former came in front of the building, and called out to her hopeful
husband, who was at one of the windows, " Keep up your heart,
Robin, she was a d------d------." Deeper moral depravity than
this it is scarcely possible even to imagine."

" A sheriff's officer was out on Monday afternoon, making inquiries
respecting the tobacco-box, which, as mentioned in our last, Margaret
Paterson stated on her death-bed to have been in her possession
when she went upon, the cart after leaving Pentland's, and which,
besides some tobacco, contained two pawnbroker's tickets; but we
have not learned what success attended his inquiries. Mrs Pent-
land, it seems, did not observe the tobacco-box, although, as already
stated, she saw Margaret Paterson lit her pipe at the fire when ahe
first came in."

Edinburgh :—Printed for John Craig.

The Recent Gilmerton

MURDER!

The Latest Account of interesting par-
ticulars relative to these most Iniqui-
tous and Horrid Transactions, which
lately took place near Gilmerton, in
the county of Edinburgh.

(Extracted from the North Briton Newspaper of this day, Wed-
nesday, 5th May 1830.)

" Dobbie, we hear, has offerred to peach. This we were quite
prepared for. In the smithy at Greenend, we stated in our last
he attempted, in the presence of one Paterson a labourer, and the
smith, whose name we have forgotten, to represent the lad Thom-
son as the  principal delinquent ; and there can be little doubt, we
should think, that the disposition to, screen himself by inculpating
his accomplice has not been lessened since he fell into the hands of
the law. But supposing Dobbie to have made a tender of his ser-
vices as King's evidence, which we think extremely probable, will
they be accepted ?

" On renewing our inquiries and investigations into this most
lamentable case, we have learned that the carters and the woman
did not remain above two hours in the public-house near Gray-
field toll : that they entered sometime after seven and departed be-
tween nine and ten o'clock, taking, as we formerly stated, the Craigs'
road. Our previous information had led as to conclude that they
did not take their departure till about an hour later, or between ten
or eleven o'clock. When they entered the public-house, which is
kept by one Pentland, the woman " lit her pipe at the ribs of the
grate" in which was a fire, and one of the men saying that they
were " yaup," (hungry) asked if they could get a herring. During
the time they remained in Pentland's, it is alleged that they had
only three gills of whisky, for one of which the woman paid three-
pence. But Margaret Paterson told her parents, while on her death-
bed, that they had four gills,  and that she paid in all tenpence. The
people in Pentland's, however, say that the seemed to have got a
dram before she came to their house, although she did hot appear
in any degree cut or intoxicated, but, on the contrary, " quite sen-
sible." While they remained in Pentland's the men treated her
well, and there was nothing particular in their conversation or con-
duct towards her. On leaving, they said to Pentland, that " they
were going to give the woman a ride in the cart."

" It may serve to give some idea of the total absence of any thing
like moral feeling among the Gilmerton carters generally, who in-
deed are nearly all of them of the same " mark and likelihood," if
we state that they continue to treat this matter lightly, thinking
that, because the two members of their fraternity charged with this
atrocious crime were " the waur o' drink," they will not be held re-
sponsible for what they may have done under its influence. Indeed,
they look upon it" altogether as a drunken frolic, which can scarcely
entail upon those concerned in it any heaver visitation than a short
durance at hard labour in Bridewell; and hence, while Dobbie and
Thomson were confined in the Lock-up-house, the wife of the
former came in front of the building, and called out to her hopeful
husband, who wag at one of the windows,- " Keep up your heart,
Robin, she was a d—d------."    Deeper moral  depravity than
this it is scarcely possible even to imagine,"

" A sheriff 's officer was our on Monday afternoon, making inquiries
respecting the tobacco-box, which, as mentioned in our last, Margaret
Paterson stated on her death-bed to have been In her possession
when she went, upon the cart after leaving Pentland's, and which,
besides some tobacco, contained two pawnbroker's tickets ; but we
have not learned what success attended his inquiries. Mrs Pent-
land, it seems, did not observe the tobacco-box, although, as already
stated, she saw Margaret Paterson, lit her pipe at the fire when a he
first came in,"

Edinburgh :—Printed for John Craig.THE    SORROWFUL    LAMENTATION

OF

JOHN   M'MANUS   AND   ROBERT   GIBSON,

Who are now lying under Sentence of Death at Ayr, M'Manus for Murder, and Gibson for
Assault and Robbery, and are to be executed on the 27th May,  1814.

LAMENTATION OF JOHN M'MANUS.

You profligate young men, give ear & attend
Unto these sad verses in grief I have penn'd,
Oh! may you take warning at my wretched
case,                            
Involved in misery, in shame, and disgrace.
In my infant years in vice I began,
And increas'd in the same as I grew up to man
Still gloried in vice, in spite of restraint,
To every thing bad my heart it was bent.
Thus resolv'd from my childhood my mind
to fulfil,
I gloried in crimes that were sinful and ill;
The Sabbath in planning of mischief I spent,
And still to profane what was sacred was bent;
My father's reproof I still did despise,
My dear mother's tears seemed light in my
eyes; 
Tho' oftimes they begg'd I my crimes would
refrain,
Their counsel I slighted withscorn and disdain.
But, oh! now, alas! how chang'd is my case!
How am I involved in shame and disgrace!
My soul it is plunged in sorrow and grief,
Nor know I which way to turn for relief
My crimes in my view how do they appear,
How am I involved in terror and fear!
Fast bound in strong fetters, in grief and in
thrall,
I  shortly to justice a victim must fall;
But oh! with what horror my soul is opprest,
Heart cannot conceive how my mind is distrest!
With terror I am fill'd when I think on my
fate,
And deeply repent when I fear 'tis too late.
My soul is distrest to think of a crime,
Committed at such a place and a time;
So hardened that I did all warning despise,
Tho' I a dread warning had full in my eyes.
Then what can I do here peace to ensure,
For if justice takes place, how can I endure?
Unable I am for to stand or to slee,
When Cain murdered Able he trembled like
me:
My sins, like his blood, with terrible cry,
To heaven call loudly to judge from on high.
My repentance it cannot, extorted by fear,
Reverse the sad sentence, it is just tho' severe;
Therefore unto God my soul I'll resign,
And my life, as a forfeit, I yield for my crime,

LAMENTATION OF ROBERT GIBSON.

O  now, when too late, I perceive my bad
choice,                                          '            
And find I have daringly slighted God's voice,
Neglected his warnings, his mercy refus'd,
Rejected his gospel, his patience abus'd.
There is but one way by which I may shun
From the dreadful misery to which I have run:
That gracious Redeemer,  despis'd in times
past,
If he speak in my favour I am saved at last.
My blest Interceder, upon Thee I call,
Look now upon me, the vilest of all.
For whom didst thou languish and bleed on
the tree?
Oh! pity my anguish, and say, 'twas for thee!
My crime it is such, it will honour thy power,
All hell will repine, while heaven will adore.
Tho' in condemnation strict justice takes
place,
It shines in salvation more glorious through
grace.
But here I must stop, for none can express
My sorrow and anguish, my grief and distress;
No beatt can conceive the sorrow and woe
That in this dark dungeon I do undergo.
Oft-times in the night, I awake in a fright,
Then the innocent victim appears in my fight.
My soul is distrest with the terrible sound,
I  hear from his voice, his looks & his wounds.
Then think all you young men, when tempt-
ed to sin,
Oh! think upon the sad state I am  in;
And may every one who reads these sad lines,
While they pity my case,   detest  my base
crimes.
And here I will these sad verses conclude,
No longer will I on your patience intrude;
But I beg that for me you will earnestly pray,
That I may be fitted for that awful day:
And I earnestly pray you all wisely may Shun,
The sad sinful paths in which I have run.
God grant that a warning it may be to all
Who may come to see me, or hear of my
fall;          
Lord grant that ail who these lines may read
way obey thy commands, and thy threaten-
ings dread.
And ray gracious Saviour my spirit receive,
That I then with Him in Heaven may live.THE     VISION!

THE following VERSES, relative to the melancholy situation of the unfortunate WILLIAM POLLOCK,
now under Sentence of Death in the Jail of Edinburgh, for the Murder of his own Wife, and
who is to be Executed on Wednesday the 22d current, and his Body to be given for public Dissec-
tion, were composed by the author, one morning in bed, after having dreamed, he had really heard
the unhappy man making his Lamentation in a similar strain to these Lines.

'Twas night, and now the wearied sun
In western skies had set; 
The time was come when men their cares
In sweet repose forget
Tir'd of the bustle of the day,
In solitude I hied
To where, from noise and toil set free,
My thoughts might range at wide.
By yon dark Jail I pass'd along,
For criminals prepar'd,
When from its cells a piteous sound
Of woe, methought I heard.
I sped to whence it did proceed,
The words distincter grew;
A murderer thus his fate bewail'd,
And did for mercy sue.
" Lock'd arc the golden gates of day,
'Tis thine, O night! the keys to keep,
Morpheus, in velvet's soft array,
Has hush'd the busy world to sleep.
Now Faucy waves her magic rod,
And roving spreads her airy wings ;
Now flatter'd Kings assume the God,
And dreaming vassals ape their kings.
The lover, free from hopes and fears,
In exstacy imparts the kiss ;
The nymph, undone, forgets her tears,
Exulting in imagin'd bliss.
They hail kind sleep in poppies drest,
Health's sweetest sister, queen of peace,
In her distinction sinks to rest,
In her their daily troubles cease,
To me no calm like this is known ;
Sleep from my eyes has ever fled ;
Conscience its snaky head has rais'd,
And all my sins before me led.
No more to me shall smiling morn
That joy impart all nature feels ;
Nor ev'ning's shade my grief assuage,
Which others cares and sorrows heal.

Far from my wretched mind has hope
On fleetest pinions soar'd away ;
No comfort left my state to cheer,
No balm my anguish to allay.
Companions in my revels, think
What you are now, and soon must be,
For God has me a warning made,
That speaks with solemn voice to thee.
Before to morrow's sun shall rise
To cheer the world, ah! who can tell,
But death may plunge your trembling souls
Down to the realms where devils dwell.
Oh ! can you bear the dreadful thought,
Should God this  night your souls require,
Can you endure eternal wrath,
Or bear the pangs of quenchless fire ?
O ! Pow'r Divine, my sins forgive:
Thou'rt gracious,  grace extend to me,
That when my flesh is turn'd to nought;
My spirit may be, Lord, with thee.
A few short days, and I am plac'd
Beyond the reach of mortal woe ;
Protect me in that trying hour,
That I may Satan overthrow.
Farewell my children, friends, and all,
For you my tears in torrents fall,
Forgive the effusions of my love,
We part in hope to meet above.
A few more hours, the struggle's past,
Life's curtain on this world is cast.
And then our spirits will soar above,
Where all is joy, and peace, and love."
The voice now faint and fainter grew ;
With solemn thoughts imprest,
I  left th' abode of wretchedness,
And hasted home to rest.
But e'er my eye-lids I could close,
On bended knees I fell,
And pray'd that all might be secur'd
From wickedness and hell.THIRD EDITION OP THE GILMERTON      

MURDERERS.   



How now!    Ye secret, black, and midnight Fiends !
What's this ye do ?                                                                                        

A deed without a name :- Shakespeare


HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.- July 12, 1830.

Third Edition of the Horrors of Gilmerton,
containing a full, true, and particular Ac-
count, not only of the Trial, but of the Be-
haviour of David Dobie and John Thomson
since their condemnation, in the Lock-up-
house, and in the Condemned Cell, being
tantamount to a Confession of the justice of
their Sentence, and also the solemn and
awful Speeches of Lord Meadowbank and
the Lord justice Clerk, in passing Sentence
of Death and dissection, word for word, as
they were spoken to the Prisoners.

On the way from the Court to the Lock-
up house, both the prisoners maintained the
same appearance as they had done throughout
the trial—that is to say, there was a restless
recklessness in Dobie's movements and in the
expression of his countenance while Thomson
was collected, silent, and seemingly quite
passive in the hands of his conductors. There
was, however, an occasional quivering of his
person, and a solemn thoughtful expression
on his pallid countenance, which indicated
that he felt more than he wished should be
observed by the spectators,

Until the evidence hud been all gone
through, Dobie indulged a hone of being ac-
quitted ; for he had adopted means for secur-
ing, as he thought, evidence in his favour.
While he was in the jail, he wrote a letter to
one of his cousins, a female residing in Gil-
merton, instructing her to swear that she had
seen Thomson give him the tin box belonging
to Margaret Paterson ; and this would have
accounted for one of the strongest circum-
stances against him. The letter, however,
never reached the hands of the woman. It was
intercepted, and given to the Sheriff, who
sent for the female, and by an interrogatory
ascertained that this was an attempt to suborn
A witness, and consequently frustrated it. It
was perhaps for the same reason that several
persons from Gilmerton, who were in the list
of witnesses, were not called to give their
evidence for the Crown, us it was probable,
from their intimacy with the prisoners, and
other circumstances, that Dobie might have
been tampering with them also.

In the Lock-up house, Dobie said that
some of the witnesses had sworn falsely ; but
this was chiefly in reference to the amount of
silver that the poor murdered woman had had
in her possession.

At seven o'clock in the morning, the pri-
soners were placed in the usual carriage to
be conveyed back to the jail. After they had
taken their seats, a tear or two were observed
In the eyes of Thomson. Doble wept plenti-
fully, and lamented for his wile and children.
( He had sent a sixpence to his wife while the
trial was going on, the day before, by one of
the witnesses.)—Thomson soon assumed his
usual appearance of indifference. He fre-
quently looked at the people through the car-
riage, and remarked that it was ' a fine morn-
ing !'

When they got into the condemned cell,
Dobie said to Thomson, ' If the woman had
been in my cairt, Jock, naething o' this wud
hae happened. The woman was a murdered
woman,—there's nae doot o' that i But hoo
thae stanes an' hay an' things cam' aboot,
(he added with an oath) I dinna ken.' Thom-
son made no answer to all this, which must
be regarded as a confession by Dobie that he
was concerned in the crimes, though not in
the worst of them ; and Thomson's silence
was a still stronger though tacit admission of
the full measure of his own guilt,—particularly
as neither of the prisoners made one single
complaint of the justice of their sentences.
Dobie spoke often of his wife and children,
for whom he lamented the disgrace he had
brought on them; and he expressed his hope
that his mother and his wife would be admit-
ted to see him. Thomson never once opened
his mouth. Dobie put an end to the scene,
by saying, ' Come, bring us thae claes (mean-
ing the prison dress ;} an' let's pit aft thir
yins.' The behaviour of the men, since, has
been firm, and becoming their situation.

THE TRIAL

The jury retired between one and two o'-
clock in the morning; and after an absence of
about ten minutes, returned and proaonnced
by their Chancellor the following verdict:—
My Lords, the jury unanimously find both
the pannels Guilty of the Robbery, the Mar-

The Lord Justice-Clerk, in discharging the
Jury, stated that the verdict which they had
returned was perfectly consonant with the
opinions entertained by the Court. Sentence
was then moved for.

Lord Meadowbank.—My Lord justice
Clerk—It is little more than eighteen months 
ago that the melancholy duty devolved on me
to propose sentence of death on a pannel con-
victed before you of a crime at that time con-
sidered almost unparalleled in atrocity. The
utmost stretch of bur imagination then did not
\ill\ us to anticipate the psosibility, that there
were living in the midst of civilized society mem
who could be guilty of still greater atrocities
—of more unparalleled brutality—revolting
to every feeling that actuates the mind of man.
I am perfectly certain that, were the details
of this case unfortunately made public, as,
thank God, the power of the law has enabled
you to prevent, those details would have ex-
cited such feelings in this Christian communi-
ty as never were before excited. It is hardly
possible to imagine that persons would have
been found living in this Christian land who
could have brought their minds to the com-
mission of such atrocious crimes. Melancholy
it is to think that, had this unprotected female
been wandering the world amongst the most
barbarous people, she would have been in a
state of comparative safety to what she was
within three miles of the metropolis of this
most civilized country ; such is the fact that
this poor unhappy woman, after having fallen
into the hands of these abandoned men, was
treated in a manner which, of necessity, was
to produce death—she was robbed of the mis-
erable pittance which she had in her posses-
sion ; and this was committed OB a person on
whom they had the intention to satisfy other
brutal passions. This is the worst feature of
the case. I have not words to express the
feelings which the details of this day have
necessarily excited in my bosom. I have al-
luded to them generally, and shall only far-
ther allude to them by saying, that I think it
was impossible for any human being, who
heard the evidence, to entertain a doubt of
the perfect propriety of the verdict which has
been returned. With these observations, I
have now simply to propose to your Lordship
to pronounce the sentence of the law, which
is that of death, and that it shall be carried
into effect on Wednesday the 18th of August
next.

The Lord Justice Clerk—John Thomson
and David Dobie, you have heard the verdict
which has been recorded, and the opinions
which their lordships entertain in regard to
your case as exhibited in evidence against yon ;
and following their example,—feeling that no
words which I can use are capable of describ-
ing the unparalleled brutality, cruelty, and
wickedness, of the foul transaction which has
been disclosed this day. I shall not enter into
details farther than to remark that the exhi-
bition you have made is calculated to make
every man blush. Such wickedness and brutal
abomination could not have been believed to
have been committed, had it not been sworn
to in evidence. Following the principle of law.
by which the proceedings have been conduct-
ed with closed doors till this stage of the pro
ceedings, I shall refrain from saying any thing
of the crimes of which you stand convicted on.
the clearest evidence ever produced before a
jury. But it is my duty to warn you to pre-
pare for the inevitable fate which awaits you
in this world ; and 1 warn you, in the most.
earnest manner, to prepare to appear before
the judgment seat of the Almighty, to answer
for all the deeds done in the body. Rest as-
sured that if ever there was a case in which
the law will take it full course it is yours'.
You are now to consider that your days on
earth are numbered, and that you have now
no other duty in the world but to pray for
forgiveness of all your crimes—to humble
yourselves at the footstool of your Creator-
Do not lose a single moment in setting about
heartfelt repentance—and God grant that it
may be sincere,—and that forgiveness be ex-
tended to you for your crimes. His Lordship
then sentenced the pannels to be executed at
Edinburgh, on the 18th August and their
bodies given to Dr Monro, professor of ana-
tomy for dissection.

Dobie addressed the Lord Justice Clerk in
these words, " My Lord, I have one thing to
say, if you please.- They cannot dissect the
soul !".

Forbes and Owen, Printers. - [Price One Penny]            A true Narrative of the Transactions of           

IS A B E L L A  P E R S T O N,

Of Cambuslang, who is accused of Child-Murder, and now a Prisoner in the, Geal of

this City.   

THE public are ever anxious to hear
of the character of any unhappy
; wretch, who, by a wicked course of life,
becomes amenable to the law; but when
Murder happens to be the crime imputed,
curiosity becomes still greater; and from
the moment the law lays hold of the per-
son suspected, Rumour is ever ready to re-
late a thousand circumstances that perhaps
never happened.

Being fully aware that this is but too of-
ten the case, 'for the information of the
public, we think it highly proper to state
the following account of this unhappy
woman, who has now become so much the
subject of common conversation, which
was related to us by a person who resides
near the place where she lives, and may be

 depended on as fact:-

ISARELLA  PERSTON, who is how con-
fined in the Tolbooth of Glasgow, being
accused of Child-Murder, is the daughter
of an industrious weaver, near Cambus-
lang, where, it is said, she committed the
horrid crime. 

It appears, much to the distress of her
disconsolate Parents, that, for a long
time past, she has led a very irregular
life, despising  all advice, and indulging,
even to excess, those passions, which, When
not kept in due bounds, inevitably prove
the destruction of the weaker sex.

It seems she had connected herself with
a young man belonging to the above place,
with whom she has unlawfully cohabited
for many years past, in spite of every ef-
fort her poor, father made to make her
leave off her wicked practices, and regain
the Path of Virtue - a path, alas! to the
disgrace of this enlightened age, which is
too often forsaken.

By this man she has had five children,
two of whom died last year of the small-
pox; some indeed say she has had seven
illegitimate children, but as our informist
only knows of five, we are inclined, to
think that that is the number. 

It was a circumstance so common to fee
her in a slate of pregnancy that the people
in the neighbourhood began to take little
notice of it; and indeed she became so ha
bituated to this sinful manner of life her-self, 
 as to treat with indifference whatever
was said to her reflecting it.

However, about two months ago, she
Was brought-to-bed, but not being seen as
 usual with the fruits of her unlawful plea-
sure in her arms, the people about the
place began to make enquiry about what
might have Become of the child, testify-
ing, at the same time, their suspicions re-
specting its fate,

This passed On for some time, till seve-
ral religious people in the neighbourhood
thought proper to consider the report which
now began to prevail, That she had actu-
ally murdered the infant, in a more seri-
ous manner.

They at last concluded, that it was a du-
ty incumbent on them to enquire strictly
Into the fate of the little innocent, in or-
der, that if she had committed so detesta-
ble a crime, she might be apprended, and
brought to condign punishment.-

Having made up their minds in this re-
spect, they had her sent for, and after in-
terrogating her sharply respecting the in-
fant, she seemed disposed, at first, to give
no satisfactory answers to the questions
asked till at last they theatened touring
her before those that would compel her to
behave in another manner, she at last said.
That, being unable to earn her brea-
and take care of the child, she gave it in
charge to a beggar-woman, who faithful-
ly promised to call occasionally, and shew
the child.

This flimsy pretence, however, by no
means satisfied the people; therefore in-
formation was immediately lodged against
her, when she was apprehended, and safe-
ly conveyed to the goal of this city, where
in all pro remain, till her
fate is decided by a due course of lawMelancholy Accident,

WITH

Farther Particulars

RELATIVE TO THE           

Gilmerton Murder, &c.



A true and farther particular Account of the whole tran-
sactions of these Monsters of Iniquity, the (supposed)
Violaters and Murderers of that unfortunate woman
Margaret Paterson.

The following melancholy and fatal accident is  copied from this
day's (Tuesday's Observer.)....

Distressing Accedent. —Yesterday morning two slaters, employed
in repairing the roof of the Sugar-house, Canongate, were precipi-
tated to the ground, from the fastening of the ladder on which they
were standing giving way ; when one of them was killed on the
spot, and the other died in the course of the afternoon.

Thomson is aged from 20 to 22 years, and unmarried ; Dobie,
who is about 28 years of age, is married, and has two children.

Strange to relate this country, which used to boast itself so
much of the fancied moral superiorty of its people over those
of the sister kingdoms, has been disgraced by the commission of a
series of crimes so novel in their character, and arguing such a degree
of hardened depravity or calculating villany upon the part of the
perpetrators, as to astonish the whole world. We have had Burke
and Hare coolly pursuing deliberate murder as a trade, we have had
Stewart or Broadfoot, and his female associate, carrying on a system
of robbery by administering a fatal drug to those whom they had
marked out as their intended victims; and it is but the other day
that the remorseless Emond expiated on the gallows the innocent
blood which he had so inhumanly shed to gratify his causeless
revenge.

But we have how to state to the natives of Scotland, (this moral
country) that a crime has been committed which throws into the
shade Bulk, (Stewart) Broadfoot, and Emond, and which, we believe,
never happened in any spot in Modern Christendom. The unfor-
fortunate woman, Margaret Paterson, met Dobie and Thomson, at
Grayfield, and asked them for a ride, as she thought they belonged
to Dalkeith. They told her they were going round to Gilmerton,
and proposed conveying her to that place, provided she would give
them some whisky. The unfortunate woman agreed to this pro-
posal, and the parries in consequence adjourned to a public-house
near the toll-bar, where the carters called and paid for two gills, and
Margaret Paterson for an equal quantity, which was all drank.
They then set out for Gilmerton, by the Craigs road, which runs
between Sunnyside and the property immediately adjoining, from
the Dalkeith road on the east, till it reaches the Gilmerton or New-
battle road, on the west, a little to the northward of the village of
Greenend. The carters did not stop at Greenend, but pursued
their course towards Gilmerton; bent apparently, on the perpetra-
tion of the crime, which there is but too much reason to believe
they soon afterwards committed, within a short distance of that
place.

We cannot ascertain what time Dobie returned with or without
his cart. It is evident, however, that Dingwall, a quarrier, found
Thomson's cart at his door unattended, arid saw a woman's shawl
and other articles in it. Dingwall afterwards met Thomson, and
said to him, 'You have had a woman in the cart,' to which he re-
plied, " Oh, yes, she is coming behind.' We understand that on
the Tuesday after this foul and unnatural murder was committed,
Dobie made the treatment of Margaret Paterson a subject of mirth
in a smithy at Greenend. We know the very words the ruffian
made use of on this occasion, but as we cannot pollute the ears of
our citizens in describing it in English, we refrain from translating
 it into any other language.

Edinburg - Printed for Felix O'Neil.MURDER.

FOURTH EDITION.—AUTHENTIC PARTICULARS.
A Fourth Edition, containing New and Interesting Particulars of that
most heart-rending and cruel Rape, Robbery, and Murder, of Mar-
garet Paterson, at Gutterdike near Gilmerton, on the night of Sa-
turday, the 24th of April  1830—together with  a  particular   and
accurate Account of the unheard of manner in which the Monsters
occasioned the death of their Victim, to the everlasting Disgrace of
Civilized Society,—and also an accurate Account and Description
of the two Men who are charged with committing this truly Fear
ful Crime, and of the Precognition taking against them by the Sheriff
of the County.—and likewise of the pious conduct of the I'll sated.
Murdered Margaret Paterson, on her  Death-Bed, a few minutes
before she expired,—being a True and Faithful Account of this
Dreadful Affair, never any where published except in this paper

The unhappy victim was named Margaret Paterson,—thirty-five
years of age,—rather tall and good-looking,—and cleanly in her per-
son and habits. She was formerly a servant in Edinburgh; but for
the last twelve months she has subsisted by travelling the country,
hawking laoe. She was born at Inverness; but was brought up at
Dalkeith,—her father having been thirty-two years employed in she
gardens of the Duke of Buccleugh, and being now allowed a pension
of six shillings a week from the present Duke.               

At Gutterdike, on the property of David Anderson, of Morden, Esq-
Banker, Edinburgh, the two men forced her through a gap in the
wall, on the left or east side of the road, into a field, and there by
force, successively violated her person. After this, the ruffians ahused
their victim with most shocking and brutal barbarity.

They dreadfully lacerated her person with some sharp instrument,
supposed to have been the bone of her corsets, which was afterwards
found on the ground, stained with blood. Her scissors also, were
stained with blood. The monsters then, with unparalleled barbarity.
forced several rough stones into the body of the ill-fated woman, and
also a wisp of straw, and a quantity of leaves, horse dang, and coal [  ]

On Wednesday last, one of the stones that had been forced
into her body came away from her. On Thursday, at three o'clock
in the afternoon, she expired, after patiently enduring the greatest ago-
nies, and retaining the full possession of her£ faculties till the last
moment.

On the body being opened after death, three more stones were found
in ft, together with the other substances we have mentioned. The
stones were the ordinary rough motal put upon the roads ; and one of
them weighed three ounces. Mortification bad taken place in the
parts which were most injured; and it was found that the gall bladsler
had been ruptured.

FURTHER PARTICULARS.

Margaret Paterson, whose inhuman murder has excited to deep and
universal a feeling of horror in the public mind, was resigned to die,
during the short time in which she breathed under the roof of her
father, after the shocking violence inflicted on her. About five mi-
nutes before her death, her mother having entered the bed roons,
found her sorely suffering daughter engaged in prayer. The latter
motioned to her mother, with her hand, to withdraw ; and she accord-
ingly left the room, conceiving that she wished to be left alone until
she had finished her devotions, In about fire minutes afterwards, she
again went into the room, and found the sufferer a corpse!

It is not true, as was at first alleged, that David Dobie formerly
kept a coal fold in Edinburgh. Another man from Gilmerton, of the
same name, had formerly kept a coal fold, which caused the mistake.

David Dobie, now in custody, and charged with being one of the
actors in this tragical case, is a native of Gilmerton, in which he has
eonstantly resided, employing himiself as a coal carter. He is about
thirty years of age,—is married to a woman from Dalkeith, by whom
he has three children,— the youngest of whom is not a month old He
is a tall, thin, but athletic man.

John Thomson, the other man charged with being a Principal actor
in the crime, is also a native of Gilmerton and a coal carter. He is
about wenty-two years of age,—unmarried,—and resided with Dis
mother.                                                                          

Neither of these men was of not riously bad character.

It is unfortunate that medical attendance was not procured for the
hapless woman until after her removal to Dalkeith, when she was at-
tended by Drs Morrison and Renton. It is said, also, that She was
not attended by any Glergyman during her mortal suffering. 

It is also much to be lamented, for the sake of public justice, what
no Magistrate, or other official person, took the deposition of the dying
woman, and that it was consequently omitted to shew to her the two
prisoners, Dobie and Thomson, in order that she might either identify
them, or declare that they were not the guilty individuals.

The precognition is still going on before the Sheriff.    Several wit-
nesses have already been examined in private 5 and the amount and
tendency of their evidence has not been allowed to transpire.

Dobie. and Thomson still remain in the Lock-up-house.
Macgaret Paterson was never married. She had one illegitimate
child which is dead

ADDITIONAL PARTICULARS, &c. 
When they got to Gutterdike, the two ' monsters' suddenly seined
on, and 'threw' Margaret Paterson out of the cart; and then dangged
her into the field. On examining her body after death, several black
marks were found on one of her sides, which might have been occa-
sioned by a fall, bat which, from their form, are supposed to have
been caused by the infliction of blows from some heavy and blunt
weapon, such as a carter's rack pin, or wrench.

One of the accounts is, that, when the monsters dragged their
victim into the field at Gutterdike, their horses, which were left.
waiting, during the commission of the crime, set off for home without
their drivers, and on arriving without them, the 'women folk' turned
out to look for the men, whom they found to be missing.

They found some articles stained with blood in the bottom of the
cart, and becoming alarmed, went on the road towards Edinburgh to
look for the men. After proceeding a little way they saw two men
at a distance, who ran off on perceiving the women :— and on advan-
cing a little farther, they heard the groans of poor Margaret Paterson,
and procured assistance.                                                                  

Margaret Paterson, it seems, was robbed of 3s. 6d. in money, and
several pawn tickets, as well as ravished and murdered.

Forbes & Owen Printer No.148,High Street, First Stair in the Close.
A full Account of the barbarous    

   M U R D E R 

That was committed on the body of MARY FRAZER, alias Adam, at
the West Port of Edinburgh in her own house, and who died on
Sunday the 3d day of July 1791, of the strokes she had received
the Monday before, from John Saxton and his three sisters in law,
who are now confined in Edinbrugh Jail

THE following melancholly accident ought to put people upon their guard to bridle their
passion, and not to suffer it' to overcome them, for passion is nothing else but a sort of
temporary madness, and one who give it the least indulgence, will work to themselves or those
who are so unlucky as to be their neighbours vexation and trouble.           

Rage and anger should always be avoided; it can be of no service to those who enjoy the
greatest share of it; many, alas too many; pride themselves in flying into passions, giving to their
fellow creatures oprobrious names and abusive language, from which they proceed to blows,
which often ends in wounding, maiming, and too often is the occasion of either of the parties
death.

All them that are any ways addicted to quarrelling, or given to wrangling, should carefully
avoid drinking spiritous liquors, for a great number of the lower class of the people are very
much given to this abominable practise, intoxicating themselves, and afterwards casting out with
their neighbours, giving and receiving the most abusive names to each other, from which they
proceed to blows, and ten to one but murder is committed before they give themselves the least
time to think what they are acting or what they are about.

 This melancholy accident which we are now going to relate, appears to be nearly allied to the
above description; for what else but drink or something worse than madness, could ever have
rempted a whole family to have fallen to beat and bruise one poor woman in the manner they
did.

It appears the deceased had some girls , and one of them having a childish quarrel with one 
of saxton's children, the deceased came to her door and calling her daughter to come in, asked
her what it Was that the girl Saxton said to her; the said, she called my father a beggar man,
when the decesed said, you might have called her the pig-wife's daughter.

Saxton and his family living immediately above the deceased, and over-hearing what she said,
came rushing down stairs upon her, when several bad words passed on both sides, when, it seems,
Saxton and his three sisters-in-law, who are of the name of Menzie, fell a beating the deceased
in a most unmerciful manner.                            



Not satisfied with what they had given her at this time, it appears that they again returned
and forced open the deceased's door, and again fell a beating and bruising her in a more cruel
end shocking manner than before.

The deceased lingered for a few days, vomiting blood at different times, and even thought
that she would have got the  better of it ; but on Sunday last, after having thrown up a good deal
of blood, she expired. And on Monday morning John Saxton, an out pensioner in Chelsea hos-
pital, and his three sisters in-law were apprehended and put in confinement in the Weft Port un-
til yesterday, when they were examined, and afterwards transmitted to Edinburgh jail, where
they now remain. Before the body was interred the Doctors opened and searched the body,
but what their opinion has been we have not been able exactly to learn, but it appears that it

has not been favourable to the prisoners,                       LAMENTATION

OF

MARY BRAID,

Who is to Executed at Edinburgh, on Monday the 17th day of February, and
her body buried within the precincts of the jail, for the unnatural crime of 
INCEST with her Brother, (who is to be transported beyond seas for life,) 
and the cruel and barbarous MURDER of her own child, their illicit off-
spring, by throwing it into the Union Canal, on the 13th of August last,
with a rope tied round its neck.

This town of late has been the seen

Of deeds too horrid for to name,

Even history blushes to afford

A space their occurrence to record.

Of heathen lands we have heard narrate

Foul deeds which freeze the blood to state ;

But lo! within this Christian land.

We equal deeds can now command 

Of Burke and Hare we have all heard tell,

Who, murdering, did their victims sell

To surgeons of the first repute

Who thought they'd naturally died—

Of Emond, whom sly vengeance drew

To kill his sister and neice too ;

And Howison, who, through wanton malice,

At Cramond slew poor Widow Geddes

Besides the list of later worthies,

Namely, M'Court, and Gow. and Beveridge,

Who, to get rid each of his wife,

Made use of poker, tongs, of knife.

Though all of these they were detected,

And each his crime has expiated

By shameful death—-yet, strange to say,

Like deeds are acted at this day.

As witness now the double crime,
Which of the city is the theme,
Incest between a sister and brother,
Cemented too with cool child murder.
Sure such can  never be the effect
Of the high famed " march of intellect ?"
Say, does a people when refined
Lose the finer feelings of the mind ?

As on my bed I lay last night,
(Sure sleep had at me taken fright,)
Such thoughts upon my mind still prey'd,
In reference to the case of Braid.
Methought a Genius wan and pale
Transported me unto the jail 
Through gate and wicket, 'thout key or bell,
He led me to the condemned cell.

Within the prison's darksome gloom,
These prisoners mourned their fated doom;
Their eyes were glazed, their cheeks were pale,
And they lifted their eyes in weeping and wail.
But there was one who strnck my sight,
Whose eye once beamed with lustre bright,
Though now 'twas bedimmed with many a tear.
As she thought on the day that was drawing near

As thus she sat in deep sorrow drowned,

Her frail body with many a chain being bound,

Beside her stood,in anxious thought,

Her brother, partner of her guilt.

Their looks betrayed their inward pain,

As they struggled a self-command to gain

To take a last and solemn farewell

Of each other they loved so fatally well.

At length spake the brother, while his tears ran down,
Farewell, dearest Mary, our time now is flown ;
Though death is your doom, how freely could I
With you exchange places, and in your stead die.
But, alas! I'll be hurried to a foreign land,
Where hard-hearted- tyrants shall o'er me command,
Without the least prospect of comfort or peace,
Till death's welcome message shall give me release.
Scarce able to speak, in his arms then she fell,
As she faulter'd these words, dear Thomas, farewell!
Repent of your sins, be Religion your guide,
And Heaven Will bless you whatever betide,
For me do not grieve-—I go hence in full hope
Of receiving free pardon through Jesus my God ;
In which blessed hope I trust I shall die,
And wake in the blessed assembly on high.

LAMENTATION.

Oh, all who hear of my sad state,

Oh, pity my dire case,
Do /?/ to an ignominious fate,

Deprived of human bliss.

Oh. if my days were to begin,

1 to the world would shew
That I would shun the paths of sin,

Wherein destroyers go.

Bin, ah ! these days are past .and gone !

In fetters here 1 lye,
Confined in a dungeon strong,

By men condemned to die.

Because God's laws I did transgress,
And would net walk therein ;

But fled the paths of righteousness
And trod the path of sin.

Tormenting thoughts oppress my heart,

While I think on my ways;
More piercing they're than sharped darts,

That have cut short my days.

And sure the vengeance it will come,

And on my head will full,
Unless that God's own holy son

Deliver me from, thrall.

O, therefore,, holy Son of God,

Do thou my soul relieve
From God's wrath and afflicting rod,
	
That now my soul doth grieve.

On thy redemption I depend ;

0  cast me not away;

But shield my soul, and me defend
Against the evil day.

And then of death's devouring pangs

I will not be afraid ;

When then by thine own righteous laws,
My righteousness hast made.
	
Good christians all, of every kind.

Who hear of my sad fate,
Repent, and sanctify your mind,

Before it is too late.

So that with you it may be well,
When you resign your breath,

And may with samts and angels dwell,
Free from the second death.

Remember, Lord, how short a time

On earth I've to remain.
And when I suffer for my crime,

May death to me be gain.

O let the prisoner's sighs ascend,

Before thy throne on high,
Likewise from death their souls defend

That are condemned to die.

O then give ear to what I say.

Seek God to be your guide;
Resort not with bad company,

And truth keep on your side.

For if you suffer passions strong

To triumph over you.
They'll hurry you to hell amongst

The lost and guilty crew,

Who've trampled on God's holy laws,

And his precepts cast behind,
And now thioughout eternity

Cannot one comfort find.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.Supposed Murder.



Account of that Horrid and Barbarous Murder, which a Baker
supposed he had committed on the body of his Wife in Glas.
gow, on Tuesday last, the 13th March, 1827, and for which
he  has undergone a public investigation*

        It happened lately that a certain baker in the city—whether ocnstitutionaily irrit-
able, or only temporarily so, owing to the present provoking cheapness of the " staff
of life," we cannot tell,  but so is the fact, as  we hare heard-on receiving some
slight provocation from his wife, determined to knead the soft dough of her breasts
and sides, so as to make her better bred in all time coming.    Dire were the blows-
deep were the groans which  were heard over-night by the neighbours—and the
death-like silence which ensued, made some of them surmise that probably the va-
lorous baker had. rather OVERDONE the thing, and that an Assize would have to be
held upon his work of that night.    They, therefore, quietly took measures to ascer-
tain the true state of matters—and, peeping through the back window, they happily
discovered the baker snoring in the arms of Morpheus, and his unfortunate help-
rate, with a brace of black eyes, busily preparing the breakfast of the barbarian,
A wag amongst them, observing that things were  not so bad as was seared, deter.
mined on a practical joke, which should have the effect, at least, of frightening the
baker when he awoke, and, perhaps, of making him curb his wicked and danger-
us passions in future-    Accordingly he procured a black STRAIGHTING BOARD, and
gently lifting the window, introduced it into the room, and left the grim coneom-
itant of death in such a situation, as to be full in view of the baker when he should
open his eyes!    By and by, the drowsy god winged his flight, and, favouring the
joke, gave the baker no intimation of the Well-meant trick which was proposed for
him.    But rich was the treat, exquisite the enjoyment, when the waiting eyes of the
lurking spectators without beheld the  man of ftour suddenly start up, rub his eyes.
and in a frantic manner jump out of bed, exclaiming—" My Mary !—my Mary !!-
have I murdered my Mary !!!"—-Mary, who was in the kitchen, and  had not been
in the bed-room since the introduction of the straighting-board, was, in her turn,
equally alarmed for the wits of her savage lord, as he was for UER life, and rushed
pale and trembling, in her white night-gown, into his presence, and there stood like
 very GHOsT !    To end the tale, the baker, with some difficulty, was convinced that
the apparition before him was the real CORPORATION, and not the SPIRIT of his mur-
dered wife.    She, with the usual gentleness of her sex, freely forgave him, upon
his  promising to be a good boy for the future—and we hope they have since been,
and will continue to be, happy.    Be this as it may, however, a report of murdor
against the baker spread thro' the city for two days, but we are happy to announce
that the particulars here detailed, form " the head and front of his offending—-no
more"—Copied from the Free Press of l7th March, 1827.

SINGULAR OCCURRECNCE.—A very hovel, but outrageously indecent occurrence
took place on Thursday in the streets of Calton. A destitute young man, an Irish-
man, died there on  Monday, and an uncle offered the use of his parlour for the
reception of the company who-should attend on his funeral obsequies. A coffin
was provided, and 12s. 6d. collected to defray expenses ; but when the people met,
the uncle was drunk, and would not permit the body to be removed. Some present.
thought it incumbent on them to insist upon the corpse being delivered up, and ac-
tordingly took it by force. The infuriated uncle raised a great disturbance, and
followed the procession, pelting them with stones. Those who carried the coffin
were worst off, and were obliged to run. This gave fresh courage to the barbarous
pursuer, who .chased them through several ssreets, swearing and crying in a most
appalling manner. The crowd raised on the occasion was immense. At length.
Sergent Leckie appeared, who took the fellow into custody, and the body was  put
into the grave, without further interruption The object of the wretch appeared
from the answer which he gave the officer to a question which he put to him on the
way to the office, if he intended to sell the body to the Anatomists? When he re-
plied, "' Have I, not a right to make as  much of it as I can ?" He was  ordered 
to pay a severe fine, on pain of being sent  to Bridewell.

Respite

OF

James Wemyss.

Edinburgh,   Monday, April 6, 1840.

This unhappy man, who was to have been
executed this morning, has received a respite
of his fatal sentence ior the period ten days.
Yesterday morning, at 4 o'clock, a despatch
from the Secretary of State was received at
the Post Office, addressed to the Governor
of the Jail, Mr Rose, to whom it was im-
mediately forwarded; and who, upon break-
ing the seal, found an enclosure addressed
to the Lord Provost, which contained the
respite, and which was promptly sent to his
Lordship by a special messenger. Between
nine and ten o'clock the Lord Provost, ac-
companied by the Rev. Mr Syme of Old
Greyfriars, came to the Jail, when his Lord-
ship, in presence of that gentleman and Mr
Rose, communicated the gracious purport of
the despatch to Wemyss. The unfortunate
convict, who has behaved with becoming
propriety since his condemnation, received
the news with great calmness and sobriety,
and did not seem in any way excited, but
apoeared to be thankful, on the ground,
that, whatever might be the future result,
the respite would allow him more time to
acquire knowledge, and to prepare himself
for the appalling change before him.

We understand that a petition in favour
of Wemyss, which was forwarded immedi-
ately after the trial, met with a decided
negative, and that the ground of tne present
respite was another petition, which was sign-
ed by most of the jurymen, and forwarded
to the Secretary of State on Monday last.
This petition prayed for delay, in order to
allow time for enquiry into certain particu-
lars winch hcd come to l.ght since the trial,
teoding to shew thut Wemyss's wife, who
was killed, had, by long habits of intemper-
ance, debilitated her constitution, and in-
duced a diseased condition of the brain, so
ss to make her liable to fatal 'njury from a
comparatively slight cause; and the affray
in whico she met her death, though fatal in
its consequences, ought perhaps to be regard-
ed rather as a drunken brawl, in which both
parties were blameable, than a deliberate act
of murder.

The statement which appeared in two
Edinburgh papers on Saturday, that the jury
had petitioned for a commutation of sen-
tence, we now understand was incorrect, the
petition merely praying for delay and farther
enquiry, in the mean time, which, as already
mentioned, the Secretary of State had fouud
himself at liberty to advise her Majesty to
grant.

We alse learn that a letter to the Judges
who presided at the trial of Wemyss, em-
bodying the view of the case above stated,
and earnestly entreating their Lordships'
favourable consideration of the case,  in the
event of a farther enquiry being allowed, has
also been presented, signed by several  re-
spectable inhabitants of Edinburgh.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.