PLAIN ANSWERS TO PLAIN QUESTIONS, IN A DIALOGUE BETWEEN JOHN BULL AND BONAPARTE, 
Met Half-Sees over between Dover and Calais.


JOHN BULL. HOW do you do?

BONAPARTE. Pretty well: but hope to be better when I am in London.

JOHN BULL. When do you expect to get there?

BONAPARTE. About the end of September, or October at latest.

JOHN BULL. Why would you not remain at PEACE with us, which you know we were anxious to preserve.

BONAPARTE. Because I had set my heart on the recovery of EGYPT, which I had disgracefully quitted, and in recovering EGYPT, to pave the way for driving you out of INDIA, to the productions of which you own so much of the Wealth, the Strength, and the Prosperity which you enjoy.

JOHN BULL. But what did Malta signify?

BONAPARTE. I could not cleverly get to EGYPT without it.

JOHN BULL. Why are to such an enemy to our LIBERTY OF THE PRESS?

BONAPARTE. That’s a foolish question, John. Why? – Because it exposes all my deep designs. Because it makes me odious amongst my own subjects , and in all Europe, by pointing out all the bloodshed, desolation, and rapine, by which I have obtained power, and by which I must preserve it. Because it recommends love, loyalty, and support to a King whom I mean to dethrone; and unanimity to a country, which I mean to conquer, to ravage, and to annihilate.

JOHN BULL. What RELIGION are you of?

BONAPARTE. None – I was first a Devil, then a Papist in Italy, afterwards a Mahometan in Egypt, and am now an Atheist.

JOHN BULL. Why then did you restore the Catholic Religion in France?

BONAPARTE. Because it answered my purpose best.

JOHN BULL. Why have you suffered your Soldiers to burn so many Towns, shed so much innocent blood, destroy Cottages as well as Palaces so indiscriminately, murder in cold blood Thousands of poor Men, and ravish Thousands of poor Women, in ITALY. in EGYPT, in SYRIA, and lately in HANOVER?

BONAPARTE. Foolish again, John. – I did not merely suffer it  – I encouraged it. My object has always been to strike terror. I don't mince matters. Witness the deliberate massacre of Four Thousand Turks in Jaffa, who were my prisoners; and my poisoning several hundreds of my own Soldiers, who were o f now use to me.

JOHN BULL. What do you mean to do if you come here?

BONAPARTE. I won't tell you.  It would make your hair stand on end.

JOHN BULL. Aren't you afraid of us?

BONAPARTE. To tell you the truth, I am. But I am not afraid to sacrifice 100,000 men in an attempt to invade you.

JOHN BULL. As an honest man, what do you most depend upon for success?

BONAPARTE. On foggy weather – long nights – want of discipline in your troops  – a want of spirit and of union in your people.

JOHN BULL. You had better let it alone, Bony: – if these are your only grounds for hope, you're a damn'd Fool, if you attempt it.

BONAPARTE. To tell you the truth, John, I don't much like some of your late proceedings in Parliament. But I am determined on the attempt: so, look to it.


CHALMERS, RAY, & CODEATH

of Bonaparte.

Official acconnt of the Death of Bona-
parte, who departed this life on Satur-
day the 5th day of May last, in the Isle
of St. Helena with a particular account
of the Causes of his Death. Taken f,om
this Morning's London Paper.


Dispatches have been received from St. Melana, which contain the
important intelligence of the decease of Buonaparte.  He expired
on Saturday the 3th of May, about six o'clock in the evening, of a
lingering illness, which had confined him to his bed for upwards of
60 days.    He desired that after his death his body might be open-
ed, as he suspected he was dying of the same disease which had kill-
ed his father, viz. a cancer in the stomach.  On opening the body,
this was found to be correct, as a cancer had actually taken place
He was sensible till the last day, and died without pain.

During the first four weeks of his illness it did
not assume any dangerous appearance, though he
appeared himself co scious that it would terminate
fatally. During the last fortnight it was evident
to all his medical attendants that he could  not sur-
vive.

He has been lying in state since she 7th. It is
said that he gave directions about his affairs and
papers till about 6 hours before he died, The body
was opened by his own surgeon.  He has left a will
which with his other papers will be transmitted to
this country. He was born in 1769.

The dispatches were brought by Captain Crokat
of the 20th Regiment. They were instantly com-
municated to ministers, and to the ambassadors, by
whom couriers are dispatched to their diffetent
courts.                                                                                                                      HURRAH! FOR FRANCIS JEFFREY!

Tune—Whistle o'er the Lave o't.

Come, ye Electors, ane an' a',
Baith rich an' poor, and great an' sma',
And welcome hame wi' great eclat
Your weel-kent friend,  Frank Jeffrey.

Till Scotland's Bill should finally pass,
And set a-drift the vile Dundas,
He did disdain you to canvass,
The noble minded Jeffrey.

But since his friends him did request,
He started has among the rest ;
To represent Edina best.
Is her ain son Frank Jeffrey.

O' Edinburgh birth and parentage,
'Mong us he's grown from youth to age.
In eloquence,  wha durst engage
To cope wi' Francis Jeffrey.

In politics his views are clear;
Oppression's sway we need not-fear,
For Liberty—to Scotsmen dear—
Is sacred to Frank Jeffrey.

His writings long have been the dread
Of those who on the poor have fed 
Corruption ne'er dare rear her head
In presence o' Frank Jeffrey.

In aid of Parliament Reform
He lang did labour in the storm.—
He's but a coof, a silly worm,
Wha drees a change in Jeffrey.

The Tories tho' they've lost the power,
In holes and corners still they cowre,
And, miscreant like, their venom pour
On our friend, their foe, Frank Jeffrey

Vile lies they coin,—you to divide
And strengthen their weak Tory side ;—
But their mean tricks we shall deride,
And steadfast stick to Jeffrey.

He weel deserves our highest praise,—
He's been a Liberal a' his days,—
And ilka honest cit now says,
My vote shall go for Jeffrey.

Then gen'rous townsmen, frank an' free,
I hope that you will a' agree
To hasten to the poll wi' me,
And vote for Francis Jeffrey.

And, Jeffrey, here's success to thee !
Yet once again, with three times three !
Like lightning let the echo flee !                
Hurrah for Francis Jeffrey!

Sanderson,  Printer, 243, High Street.An Excellent New Song.

YOUNG JAMIE AYTOUN.

TUNE—" Auld Rob Morris"

BOBBY J---------N.

There's young Jamie Aytoun that wins in Milne's
	Court,
He's a man o' the regular radical sort,
Has fourscore ten pounders, and fourscore too—
An' young Jamie Aytoun's the member for you.

	AULD REEKIE.

Haud ye'r tongue, Bobby, an' let that a be,
For his eild an' my eild can never agree :
They'll never agree, an' that ye will find—'
For I'm for a joe o' anither guess kind.

	BOBBY.

Haud your tongue Reekie and lay by ye'r pride,
For he's be your Member, whatever betide;
We mind nae the Whig's raving hulliballoo :
For young Jamie Aytoun's the Member for you.

	REEKIE

The lout Jamie Aytoun, I ken him fu' weel,
His arse it sticks out like an ill made coal creel;
Wi' his short shambling houghs and guseberry
	ee :
Oh ! his slobberin sow-mouth I never will pree.

	BOBBY.

Although Jamie Aytoun's an ill-favoured man,
He'll stand like a stot for each radical plan ;
The Chief Baron's the man that ye have in ye'r
	ee,
But Jamie's a far better member than he.

	REEKIE.

Ye may think wi' ye're specks ye can see i' the
	dark,    
But Aytoun's no fit for my Parliament wark :
I rather wad want than hae him for a year—
Sae mair of Jem Aytoun I never will hear.ANSWER

FOR

THE WHIGS.

To the Clamerous Song on  them.

In truth. good sir,  we gladly hear,
Good honest Ayton's praise ;
But much we marvel at your jeer
On Whigs of our own days.

How mu h in freedom's sacred cause,
Life's energies they spend ;
How much th y have upheld the laws,
And stood the people's friend.

Is sunk entirely by your quiz
On men of fair renown ;
And therefore we like not your phiz,
And hold you as a clown.

Good sir, in freedom's cause
No banners black are seen ;
No pirate's flag can mend the laws,
Or gain us aught but spleen.

And spleen's an enemy to truth,
T o Freedom and Reform,
And ruins many an honest ruth,
And many a lovely form.

Wherefore, we crave you'll not assail
Our Whigs of reputation,
With cavils vile as fulsome snail,
Maggot's of your creation.

And when the lovely Bill appears,
The Bill of true Reform,
We'll up and sing unto our Peers,
And so avert the storm :

Which else would, ever and anon,
Rise from the sulky fogs,
Of some dull pate, which should bemoan
Among the blackest bogs.HUZZA ! for
PROVOST  AYTOUN!!

A NEW SONG.

Tune—" THE ARETHUSA."
I.

COME all Reformers, sing again,
For what Reformer can refrain,
On hearing the heart-string strain,
Huzza for honest Aytoun ?
For honest Aytoun did I say ?
That was once very well—and it had its day ;

But we now require,
If the muse will inspire,
To raise the song a good deal higher,
For we soon shall see our hearts' desire.

Huzza for PROVOST Aytoun !

II.

O Jamie Aytoun, worthy soul !
Head of the People and the Poll!
It seems at first a little droll

To call you Provost Aytoun.
Yet Provost you shall surely be,
Or woe unto the Thirty-three !

Better far that they

Ne'er had seen the day
When the close old system first gave way,
Than e'er to think of saying, Nay,

When asked to vote for Aytoun!

III.

SPITTAL on this may chew the cud
When Aytoun nips him in the bud *—
For 'tis to me as clear as mud

He must be nipp'd by Aytoun.—
His pride will have its downfall soon,
Though now blown up like his own balloon;

And on the South Bridge,

Just over the ridge

Of the Cowgate rails, where their's plenty of fall,
He may hang himself with a ribbon or a shawl,

For spite at Provost Aytoun !

IV.

But let the Haberdasher go,

And lose his thousand a-year or so,

It will not be a deadly blow

To us or Provost Aytoun ;
And although big Gibson and the rest,
Whose names are now such a standing jest,

And the precious pair

Who eat their fare,

At tenpence a-head, with BLACK in the chair,
Should all shake their heads, yet that will ne'er

Discomfit Provost Aytoun.

V.

No longer need we now repent

That he did not go to the Parlia-ment—

Far better will his time be spent

With us as Provost Aytoun.—
Far better for our own good town
That he thus should fill the Provost's gown—
For it's he can explain
In his popular strain
What taxes go against the grain—
Though the Clergy, perhaps, may not say "AMEN !"
To the plans of Provost Aytoun.

VI.

Yet see him with his chain of gold,
And rich fur robe of many a fold,
While at his back the Bailies bold

All follow Provost Aytoun.
From the Royal Exchange he takes his way,
To St Giles' Church on the Sabbath-day,

While the Halberdiers

March with their spears
And the crowd can scarce repress their cheers,
And each mother cries, " There now, my dears,

You've seen the famous Aytoun !"

VII.

And when his Provostship is done,
And his great career he's nobly run,
And finished all that we've begun,

He'll still be Provost Aytoun!
For though he retires from care and strife,
All into the vale of private life,

Yet his townsmen all,

Both great and small,
Respect to him will still accord—
Once Provost he'll be aye my Lord—
                     And still we'll spout for Aytoun !

        See the Solicitor-General's Speech at the Leith Dinner.

                          ___________

                                                   Waugh, Printer, Edinburgh .

HUZZA !

FOR

PROVOST  SPITTAL !!!

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG.

Tune—" THE ARETHUSA."

I..

YE Whig Reformers all draw near,
To Aytoun's trash ne'er lend an ear,
But join with me in a counter cheer-
Huzza for Provost Spittal!
To hear what Aytoun's friends advance,
You'd think the other had no chance,
And that he was as snug
As a flea in a rug,
But take my word it's all humbug,
And that Aytoun first must have a tug
For the Provostship with Spittal.

II.

For if the voters you inspect,
A great distinction you'll detect,
And those are much the most select
Who give their votes to Spittal.
The Aytounites, we all must feel,
Are really not at all genteel—
But horrid low,
From the Cowgate and Bow,
St Mary's Wynd and the Potterrow—
Where respectable Whigs would never go
To canvass even for Spittal.

III.
A Haberdasher though he be,
Yet Aytoun knows he's as good as he-
A Lawyer who ne'er touched a fee
Must not compare with Spittal.
And Spittal too has lately bought,
In Berwickshire, a pretty spot,
Called Justice Hall,
At which, though small,
He'll be very proud to see you all,
If you'll favour him with a morning call,
Whene'er he's Provost Spittal.

IV.

And though Aytoun jokes at Spittal's shop,
It's far too good a thing to drop,
And now must needs be quite tip-top
When he is Provost Spittal.
So all of you, some afternoon,
Just step to the sign of the gold balloon,
Where, I dare to say,
You'll get away
Some ribbon or silk for a holiday,
Which, out of your thousand a-year, he'll pay.
If you'll cheer for Provost Spittal.

V.

And what's this mighty fuss we hear
About a thousand pounds a-year-—
It  would be cutting much too near
To grudge that sum to Spittal.
For though the Old Town Council's up.
The New one still must dine and sup ;
And much depends
On what he spends
To enable the Provost to gain his ends,
By giving a snack to his good Whig friends.
That vote along with Spittal.

VI.

It would indeed be mighty hard,
If the Whigs should lose their just reward,
And all their prospects now be marr'd,
By Aytoun beating Spittal.
Reform's not worth a single fig,
Unless it serve to help a Whig ;
With much ado,
They carried it thro'
For themselves alone, and not for you,
You vile and low-bred Radical crew,
That refuse to vote for Spittal.

VII.

Then Whig Reformers, one and all,
Up with the Laird of Justice Hall,
And down with every Radical
That will not vote for Spittal.
The Tories now are fairly down,
And Whigs alone must rule the town ;
So never fear,
Though Aytoun may jeer,
When it comes to the scratch he'll disappear—
So Reform for ever and the thousand a-year,
And huzza for Provost Spittal!!

Waugh, Printer, Edinburgh.   THE

DOWNFALL

OF

SPITTAL!

A NEW SONG.
Tune—" WHICH NOBODY CAN DENY."

I.

COME join in my chorus, true Aytounites all,
And sing of our triumph and SPITTAL'S down-fall,
For altho' to the Whigs it be wormwood and gall,
Yet the Draper must certainly go to the wall—
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

II.

Of ECONOMY now he may drivel and drawl,
But the thousand a-year we must always recall—
So under his counter he'd much better crawl,
In case he be tossed in a blanket or shawl—
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

III.

What altho' thro' the streets lying ballads they
squall,
In praise of his shop, and his seat, Justice-Hall,
While they swagger, and bluster, and bellow, and
bawl,
JAMIE AYTOUN, as Provost, we'll quietly install—
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

IV.

Tho' GIBSON may stand 'mong the people like Saul,
And JEFF look still bigger, though hardly so tall,
Yet when spirits like ours they pretend to enthrall,
They'll speedily find that they both must sing small,
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

V.

SPITTAL tells us we're low ; and he fain would
miscall
The Cowgate and Bow, 'cause they dare to black-
ball
A pert little Draper ; but yet after all,
If he is so high, so much greater his fall—
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

VI.

But my rhymes, they are finished; so now, once
for all,
Let us sing in full chorus to Spittal's down-fall;
Jamie Gibson will play us " the dead march in
Saul,"
And Black will be happy to carry the pall—
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

                                  -----------------

                         Grant, Printer, Edinburgh.The Lord Advocate's Address to
Auld Reekie's Sons,

Whose display of talent and independent
spirit has been so long established in this his
native city ; it is therefore beyond all doubt
he will succeed as one of her Representatives :
His magnanimity of mind, and his stedfast
adherence to sound principles, entitle him to
your generous voice. Only think on BRUCE
and WALLACE ! they fought with sword in
hand-he fights with words and pen ! Recd
the Edinburgh Review !                 W. G.

SONG.

FRANCIS JEFFREY.

TUNE—Johnny Cope.

OH ! JEFFREY, welcome to your town,
She prays an' greets you as a boon ;
Altho' you swore by Willie's crown,
We wish you luck some morning.

O if I had ten thousand votes,
The air as thick as autumn's motes,
My pocckets fu' o' Willie's notes,*
I'd gie them a' for Jeffrey.

Some fo'k hae dared to speak o' you,
They said to Scotland you was not true;
May they be d------d the silly crew,
Wha wou'd despise our Jeffrey.

He ever was Auld Reekie's friend,
His deeds will show—how big his mind,
His soul with virtue is well lined,
The chief o' chiefs, Frank Jeffrey.

For me to paint him as our chief,
For GOD SAKE, read his letter brief;
May he ne'er thrive, the cruel thief,
That would oppose our Jeffrey,

Ye, Pounders Ten, come join wi' me,
And drink success by three times three ;
He is our Member we agree,
The star o' stars, Frank Jeffrey !

*  Sir W. Forbes & Co. Bankers, Edinburgh.A NEW SONG,
LITTLE FROSTY.

Hey, little Frosty, will ye no resign
Your office high, an' power sae fine ?
Or do you fear the cash to tine,
That ye stay sae lang i' yer corner ?

Or is't the ermine gown sae grand—
The auld cocked hat, or gouden band—
That, tho' unfit, e'en gaurs ye stand,
Sae lang up i' yer corner ?

Or is't the Kirk that keeps ye there,
To fecht it's battles strong an' sair ?
If it be this, it isna fair,
To keep ye i' the corner.

Or is't the title o' "My Lord,"—
The auld gilt mace, an' roosty sword—
The easy chair at Counil board,
That gars ye stay i' yer corner ?

Or ist' because i' the Clydesdale Bank,
Ye fain wad wi' Director's rank— ?
Tho', by the bye, ye thence did shank
An' left them in a corner.

Or tell me, Frosty, tell me true—
Is't no the siller that ye lo'e ?
If they tak that—'twill no be you,
Will stay lang i' yer corner.

Or is't because ye are, na fit,
That ye're the mair resolved to sit ?
Sae like an Ape or Cushew nit,
Stuck up into a corner.

Or is't because ye like to be,
A source o' laughter, mirth an' glee,
To mony anither chiel than me,
That ye stay in yer corner ?

Whate'er it be I dinna care ;           
But, by my troth, I'm verra sure,   
That sic a fule as you was ne'er      
Stuck up in sic a corner!                  'ADDRESS

TO
OF

Edinburgh

FELLOW CITIZENS,

In this enlightened age, when the advantages of local position
are justly esteemed paramount to those of intellectual superiority
or public eminence, I come forward boldly to claim your suffrages
on grounds altogether independent of my political principles or of
my mental qualifications. I have spent my life in occupations
which have secured my inefficiency and yet cherished self-esteem;
and have carefully avoided any intercourse or pursuits which, by
enlarging my views, or enlightening my mind, might have assimi-
lated me to my opponents, and prevented my appealing to you, as
I now do, On the sole ground of residence within the Burgh of Edin-
burgh.

I have, however, other, though inferior, claims to your support.
You are now in possession of a Franchise from which I laboured to
exclude you, and which, if I have the honour of being your Repre-
sentative, I shall lose no time in attempting to withdraw, as, if once in
Parliament, I should scorn to hold my seat on so frail a tenure as
the ever fluctuating voice of Public opinion.

You all admired the truly patriotic and prudent conduct of the
late Representatives of the Town Council of Edinburgh, and look
back with regret to the snug and quiet Elections in the City Cham-
bers, now, alas ! departed. It shall therefore be my earnest en-
deavour to restore to this City that old Burgh System in which I so
much delighted, and of which I am proud to term myself the last
Representative. I treated with scorn the Petition of 17,000 of my
Fellow-citizens in favour of that enlightened and distinguished in-
dividual whose place I am now anxious to fill, and supported Mr
ROBERT ADAM DUNDAS, with whose dignified and appropriate
contempt of public opinion I entirely concurred.

I am peculiarly well acquainted with the critical and embarrass.
ng situation of the Town's affairs, having had ample means of ac
luiring  information in consequence of my connection with  the
Old Town Councils, whose judicious administration has accumu
ated the load of debt by which you are at present burdened, and
of whose generous profusion of the public money I heartily ap-
prove ; being satisfied that their mode of Election and consequent
irresponsibility ensured for them that virtuous independence which
I am resolved to maintain.

The facility with which I exchanged the assumed liberality of
my first address for the high-souled Toryism of my present pro-
fessions, affords the best security for my steadiness and consist-
ency in Parliament.

The accuracy and correctness of my assurances on the subject of
the Town's affairs, the realization of which has been prevented by the
natural course of events, assures you of my ability and discretion ;
and while my opponent, SIR JOHN CAMPBELL, is evidently incapaci-
tated from being your Representative by that extraordinary union
of talent, industry and political consistency which has raised him
to the rank of Attorney General of England—I can sincerely assure
you that, had it been my lot to have entered the same honourable
profession, no such disqualification would ever have attached to
me.

I now confidently claim your Votes. Unacquainted with Politics,
I pray you to entrust to me the duties of a Legislator. My views
are limited to the confined sphere of my previous occupations.
call on you to send me to the extensive field of Parliamentary en-
quiry. 1 am attached to the Principles, and have been educated in the
School, of the Tories.—and I entreat you to exercise in my favour
those suffrages which I'sincerely wish had never been conceded to
you,

I have the honour to be,

Your known Friend,
                           TIMOTHEUS SYNTAX,

For J.  LEARMONTH.BY ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH

Rumoured Death
OF  THE

DUKE
OF
WELLINGTON.

FROM THE WITNESS.

Edinburgh, Wednesday. Sept.15, 1852.

At an early hour yesterday evening the
following intelligence reached town by elec-
tric telegraph, taken from a sixth edition
of the Sun :-

" His Grace the Duke of Wellington ex-
pired at half-past three this (Tuesday) after-
noon at Walmer-Castle."

At a later hour (half-past twelve) the
following also reached us by electric tele-
graph :-

" The Standard says that the news reach-
ed Apsley House by a private message of
the telegraph of the South Eastern Railway.''

But this apparent confirmation of the ru-
mour is accompanied  by the following, which
leads us to infer that the rumour is at least
premature :-

" LONDON, 10.30 P.M-In reply to en-
quiries made at Apsley House at ten o'clock,
it was stated that no news had been received
from Walmer Castle ; and a similar answer
was given at the Horse Guards and Buck-
ingham Palace."

As no public announcement had previous-
ly been made of his Grace's indisposition,
the probability is that the rumour is without
foundation.

Should any authentic intelligence on the
subject reach us in course of the day, we
will announce it in a second edition.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.
Downfal of Soci-
alism! Death of
Robert Owen !

This is a curious Article on Socialism, extracted
from the Glasgow Weekly Dispatch, and the reader
cannot but be amused at the death of the Founder
of that System which is so fast falling to the
ground, that in one night the foundation gave way,
leaving the superstructure tottering in the air.

This far-famed polutionist  of the  female sex, de-
grader of the noble destinies of man, and contemner
of the laws of God—this insignificant personage
who vainly thought to set up the weak imagination
of his own perverted mind above the sublime pro-
vidence of an all-powerful Governor—this poor
wretch, who set himself up as the god of the hi-
deous monster known by the unappropriate title of
" Socialism"—this hoary headed sinner, we are
sorry—no we are happy to learn, by a letter from
Lincoln, died very suddenly in " the gall of bitter-
ness and the bond of iniquity" on Tuesday last.
It appears that Robert had been discussing his fa-
vourite subject with a very powerful and able an-
tagonist, on Monday, who handled the subject so
well that poor Owen left the hall in a galloping con-
sumption. After reaching his lodgings he felt the
disease rapidly gaining ground, and accordingly
sent for the parish physician, who prescribed the
following dose:—-Two grains of Humility, one
grain of Prayer, one drop of the influence of the
Spirit, mixed up with one grain of Faith, accom-
panied with copious draughts from the Fountain
of Life, This Owen considered a strong dose, but
nevertheless, being determined to be relieved from
the deadly grasp of his Social tormentor, he took
the dose, which soon did its work—its powerful
effects were soon seen in pulling down the strong-
holds of Satan and levelling Socialism in the dust.
After undergoing the most excruciating pain, as he
vomited up his hypocricy to his father-in-law,
when he imposed on him by his sanctimoniousness,
in order to secure the fortune of Mrs Owen, as he
vomited up his plans of Social wickedness, with his
abominable publications, and at last Robert Owen
the Socialist expired with the New Moral World in
his throat, and there arose Robert Owen the humble
Christian. The New Man rose and commenced
burning every book connected with the beastly
system of which he was the founder the New
Moral World he committed to the flames, rejoicing
and praising God that the day of retribrution had
arrived, that Owen the Socialist was no more, his
plans for overturning the Providence of God con-
sumed in the flames, and Socialism burned to ashes,
never to raise its guilty head.

We fondly hope our information is correct, and
that the Hall of Science blackguards will' follow  
the noble example of their leader, and become dead
unto the beastly system.

Reprinted for J, M'Culloch.ELECTORS

            OF



ARBROATH.

In a few days will be published, a full
Report of the Speeches of Mr Ross, and
of Mr  D.D. Cargill, Mr Canning, and of
Mr Gibson, delivered in the Trades-
Hall, on Wednesday Evening—the last
being a complete Tyro's Guide to the
genuine principles of ' Mob Oratory.'

1st, Heckler.—I love the Baillie, keays
he never gives us nothing that's low.

2d, Currier.----D-----n any thing that's

low; I can't bear it. What, Mr Mug-
gins, though I'm obligated to dance a
Bear in the Trades-Hall, may this Glen-
dronach be my poison, if my Bear ever
dances to any thing but to the most gen-
teelest of tunes—' The Mucking of Geor-
die's Byre,' or ' The Sow's Tail to Geor-
die.'

Electors of Arbroath, let your Watchword be,

ROSS for   Ever!

AND

Confusion to all Mob Orators ! !FOUND.

The public are informed that a telegram was received this morning,
at three o'clock in the afternoon, by a friend of the

YOUNG   MAN

who has been long missing from the neighbourhood of the High Street,
stating that he has been found by the City Police of a rural district
called Old Manconium, which is situated at the foot of the Underground
Mountains, on the south side of the Equator, and near to the North Pole.

It appears that he left the town on the 3rd of next month by means
of a fast train on the underground railway that commences at Boggart
Hoile Clough, and which is known only to a few of a certain class. He
was directed to it by a tall, black man, dressed in the height of fashion,
whose uniform bore on the right arm the following device : —A Cloven
Foot surmounted by a Pitchfork and a pair of Horns. On arriving at
the station he found all the porters, guards, &c., wore the same uniform,
and bore the same device as his conductor, and learned that the Company
was called the Pandemonium Line. When the train started! he was
surprised at the speed at which they travelled, finding next morning
he was 4000 miles on his journey, and they went through the Suez
Canal at a fearful rate. On arriving at the Mount Cenis Tunnel he
had to take a screw steamer, which, when only half-way through, the
tunnel, drew so much water that she began to sink; to lighten her a
few thousand Communists were thrown overboard, who are supposed
to be the same that have caused the hubbub in Paris. In passing
through the scene of Dr Livingstone's explorations he met with that
celebrated traveller, who was glad to see him, and entertained him for
several days, promising to be home to tea on the 34th of July next,
after Tib's Eve. Bidding good-bye to the doctor, he arrived at Ice
Bergs, in the vicinity of the North Pole, where the intence cold melted
his cast-iron trimmings. To sustain life in this  region he was obliged
to shoot large numbers of white bears, melt them on icebergs, eat of
their flesh, and drink their oil in quarts. This food not agreeing with
him, he was obliged to eat the sausage stripes from his trousers, the
mutton cutlets from his waistcoat, also the tripe collar that adorned
his double-barrelled coat.

In the months he was absent he found that he had lost in weight,
of flesh, no less than 74 inches avordupois round the calve of his legs ;
and, on referring to a looking-glass, he found his tall complexion was
much altered—his face being tatooed with the bites of mosquitoes (which
were very numerous, in consequence of the intense cold) ; and his nose
the colour of a red-hot poker through drinking so much foreign London
gin, which is distilled by the natives of that country in immense
quantities.

It is made from the gills of pickled gorillas, wild porcupines, and
other insects which abound in that quarter.            

He declared before the Magistrates that he was a true Briton, and
ho would fast all the days of Lent before he would eat their vile and
horrid stuff.

It was surprising how he could fast every day, from 12 o'clock at
night till 8 in the morning, without eating anything at all.

P.S.—His relations are hereby informed that he is now well treated,
boarded, and lodged, and that he will be delivered safely to them on
payment of the unnecessary expenses ; the said expenses being incurred
by the printing of bills, and by his rending and destroying every one
of the twenty straight jackets, with which he has been accommodated
during his imprisonment.

L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.INTERESTING CASE OF TORY INTIMIDATION.

Just Published, a Correct Copy of that Singular & Extraordinary Dialogue that took place between a young Lady, daughter of a Professor in the College of Edinburgh, and a Merchant on the Bridge, who was threatened by the Lady with ruin and destruction, if he did not vote for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmontch. 

The following strange affair is taken from a respectable Edinburgh journal – the disgraceful practice of intimidating electors into a violation of conscience, by promises amounting to bribery, or threats inferring worldly ruin, has been resorted to y  the Tories at the present election canvass, with more effrontery determination then was perhaps ever exercised upon any former occasion.  The extent to which these dishonest practices are carried, is sufficiently detailed in a letter inserted in the ‘Scotsman’, of Wednesday last, under the head “Tory Tactics”, and we can add many other acts of intimiditation, but the following may be taken in the mean time as a specimen of the gentler sort of coercion which certain fair conservatives employ to win over their fellow MEN to support the present PITTY-coat government. The coloquy bet ext the fair canvasser and the independent Reformer is given verbatim. The respectable merchant alluded to is known to us, and we can substantiate the fact:

Miss — Mr G, I called to ask you how you are going to vote at the ensuing election.

W. G, — I vote for Abercombie and Campbell.

Miss — That is a pity. It is a great pity. The professor desired me to call and ask you to vote for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmonth, and I confidently expected you would do so.

W. G, — I cannot. I know that Professor — differs from me in political opinions but it cannot be helped.  I will not deviate from my principals.

Miss — It is a great pity. You ought to deliberate better on the subject. You will hurt your business.

W. G, — On that point I am quite indifferent. I may be obliged to break stones on the road side for my daily bread, but I will never be induced to vote against my principals.


Miss — Well; it will be a matter of consideration whither we deal with you any more or not.
W. G, — On that point you may make up your mind—on the other, mine is made up long ago, and will be maintained, let the consequences be what they may.

The lady departed “without bow, or nod, or scrape”.

The journal referred to states, that although the lady’s name is not published in this instance, yet they are in possession of it along with many others, and should this shameful system of intimidation be persevered in, it will be found necessary to make a general exposure of their names.  So the young Tory Ladies had better be on the look-out for squalls, as an exposure of this kind would certainly be a mot in their marriage not easily wiped off.


A DUNBAR PRINTER  EDINBURGHJack the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is it that modestly proposed himself as the Successor of Lord Advo-
cate Jeffrey in the Representation of Edinburgh ?—Ans. Jack the Coachmaker !

Ques. Is there any human creature who honestly believes Jack to be in all or even
in any respect qualified to represent the Modern Athens in the Commons House of
Parliament ?—Ans. Yes, one; Jack the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is it that by common consent is set down as the most shallow, arro-
gant, presumptuous, conceited and self-sufficient coxcomb that ever wriggled itself
into notoriety, or escaped being breached for its habitual impertinence ?—Ans. Jack
the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is that fawns on and cringes to his superiors, enacting to a marvel
the part of Macsycophant, whilst towards his inferiors and dependants he plays the
petty tyrant, comineering and swaggering with characteristic insolence ?—Ans. JACK
THE COACHMAKER.

Ques. Who is it that, having once proposed to " chuck" the Kirks to the Devil
or Jack Robison, now pathetically undertakes to die for Religion ?—Ans. JACK THE
COACHMAKER

Ques. Who is it that a reverend and truly pious Minister of the Gospel openly,
In the face of a Church Court, classed among " infidels and scoffers,"—Ans. JACK
THE COACHMAKER. Who has now sworn to stand by the Kirk and the true faith—
namely, the Annuity-Tax,—" as long as there is breath in his body."

Ques. Who is it that affects to consider the friendship of Childe Harold as a dis-
honour, and the fact of companionship with the the great Poet of Liberty, who died
a martyr to the cause hallowed by his genius and inspiration, as presumptive evi-
dence of irreligion ?—Ans. Ye Gods ! JACK THE COACHMAKER.

Ques. Who is it that having been recently Whig and Reformer, has now Ratted
back to the Tories, in the hope of stepping into Parliament on their shoulders? —
Ans. Jack the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is it that his present suppor ers, including, of course, Primo Buffo of
the party, scoff at in their clubs as the knight of the poll who aspires to a seaton
the box ?—Ans. Jack the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is that, in spite of his nose, considers himself an A-poll-o ?—Jack the
Coachmaker ?

Ques. Who is it that, calling himself a man of business, first declared the  finan-
ces of the Corporation of Edinburgh in a flourishing condition, and the assets to the
debts, as thirty to twenty, yet afterwards took credit to himself for making the as-
tounding discovery that this flourishing Corporation was in a state of insolvency ?—
Ans. Jack the Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is it that, whilst the affairs of the city were in this condition, bank-
ruptcy impending, deliberately cast into the great gulf, where it was swallowed up
and, the fund which the benevolence of Dr Bell had set apart for educating the
poor of this city, which he now proposes to represent in Parliament?—Jack the
Coachmaker.

Ques. Who is it that stood forth as sponsor to the odious and infamous Community
Estate Bill, the real object of which was to saddle on the citizens for ever and a day
the consequences of the gross mismanagement meat of self-elected and irresponsible Coun-
cils, and thus practically to destroy, or, at least, render wholly inoperative the
Burgh Reform which had recently before been obtained ?—Ans. Jack the Coachman.

Ques. Who is it that first abused and maligned the deputation sent by the Inhabi-
tants' Committee to watch and control his proceedings,—then attempted to sneak
into the favour of those he had traduced,—then consented, when he could not help
himself, to give up the more obnoxious parts of his famous bill,—and, lastly, when
his hateful measure has been pruned and weeded of its abominations, returned to
Edinburgh, and openly boasted in Council that he had succeeded in carrying every
object originally contemplated by him ? Ans. JACK THE COACHMAKER.

Ques. And who is it that, with this rare stock of merit at his back, now offers
himself on the Tory interest, as a Candidate for tho suffrages of the Citizens of Edin-
burgh? Ans. Why 'tis JACK THE COACHMAKER.

Ques. But will they have him, strange mixture as he is of gironette, coxcomb and
double apostate, with such things to answer for besides ? Ans. Omnes: No, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no !!!!!Mr Ay toun's Campaign against the
Airdrie Radicals,

AN EXCELLENT NEW SONG,

Sung, with great applause, at the last dinner given by
the Edinburgh Sour Milks.

COME brother Conservatives, fill up your glasses,
And start to your feet with a hearty hurra!
Tho' no more we may draw our broad swords on the asses,
Our tricks and our cunning will win us the day.
	E'en let the Whigs prate on,
	Our jolly friend Aytoun,
Who at Airdrie was with us, and brave Bonnymuir,
	Can speechify rarely,
	Will bother them fairly.
And still is at heart a true Tory, I'm sure.

You remember the day when we hunted the rebels,
From sunrise to sunset, yet never came near,
Lest our wames should be bored by their radical dibbles,
And Aytoun right crously rode on in the rear.
	That night round the table,
	We craw'd o'er the rabble,
And swore that Whigs never should rule o'er the land,
	Aytoun stagger'd, grew doited,
	And I cappernoited,
Then tumbling we swore by each other to stand.

The wine it was good, and our noddles were swimming.
Honest Aytoun was shouting, long life to our power!
And inspired by his fervour, with glasses o'er brimming,
In chorus we joined at the wee witching hour.
	The reforming communion
	May rave about union,
But we know by turmoil our banner's up-born,
	Could the fools a way hit on
	To pacify Britain,
We 'ld hound our friend Aytoun upon them next morn.

Now Aytoun, here's to him with hip and hurra!
Has managed to set our old foes by the ears,
And if we strike in boys, we 're sure of the day,
For Aytoun is with us what ever appears.
	'Tis true the sly knave
	Must still bellow and rave,
Lest the radical noodles should smell out his meaning,
	But for all that he says,
	He will, one of these days, 
Show to our side his heart all along has been leaning.

Then hip, hip, hurra ! for Conservative Aytoun,
Our battle he's fighting, as soon will be seen,
When once he gets in we'll not long be kept waiting,
For he's sure of a pension from Lord Aberdeen.
	The Whigs have no chance,
	Will not dare to advance,                             
On the sabre that glittered ir Bounymuir's moon,   
	So let us at safe di   ance,                      
	Refuse our assistance,                          
But write clever songs on our heavy dragcon,         

MR BLAIR'S

Claim to Represent the Independent Electors
of the City of Edinburgh.

1.   He will support a true, thorough, safe and substantial REFORM of
every abuse in Church and State, at home and abroad.

2.  He will unflinchingly advocate a strict and unsparing RETRENCH-
MENT of all superfluous expenditure, and the speediest possible abolition
of useless places, pensions and sinecures, whether in the Court of Exchequer
or any where else.

3. He will support BOROUGH REFORM, not as a Whig job, not as
a plan for throwing power into the hands of a party, but as a means of
giving the people a full and fair share and control in their municipal govern-
ment.

4. He will bring in a bill for putting an end to that odious, unjust and
partial privilege of EXEMPTION from in the Annuity Tax enjoyed by the
College of Justice, and will use every exertion to diminish and fairly distri-
bute the burdens of the people.

5. He will listen, with readiness and anxiety, to the wants and wishes,
the sufferings and exigencies, of all classes, poor or rich, enfranchised and
unenfranchised, and will devote his whole time and talents to your interests
seeking no other reward but your approbation, and fearing no other conse-
quences but your censure.

6. He will fearlessly support the cause of PEACE, and resist interven-
tion in the affairs of foreign states, and will strive to enforce a policy that
shall be truly BRITISH in all its objects, and in all its bearings.

Lastly, It seems to me no unimportant circumstance, that, while Mr
BLAIR'S principles are so free and liberal, he is supported by the most re-
spectable, the most independent, the most wealthy, and the most influential
inhabitants in Edinburgh : those persons who are your true friends, your
steady customers, patrons, and employers—to whose assistance you look in
the hour of distress and difficulty—and on whose prosperity, and good will
and free expenditure of their means among you, your own comfort and sup-
port so essentially depend.                                                     

Think, my friends, of these things ; and let the result of the poll prove
at once your good sense, your spirit, your prudence, and your independence.

                                VOTE FOR BLAIR     REFORM

   BILL.





AN anonymous PLACARD having been
stuck up in various places, stating that the
REFORM BILL had been read a third time
and passed in the House of Lords, without any
opposition, " excepting from the EARL OF HADDINGTON and the DUKE OF BUCCLEUGH ;" the
Public are reminded that these Noblemen did

not oppose the principle of the Bill,

but only one of its provisions limiting the 

Representatives for SCOTLAND to a smaller number, by Eight or Ten, than the population (to say nothing of the wealth and intel-
ligence of that Conntry when compared and
contrasted with England,) entitled her to
have. It is therefore obvious, that both
Noblemen acted from motives the most patriotic and upright, and have justly deserved the

Thanks of their Countrymen

in place of the opprobrium sought to be fixed
upon them by the nameless author of the above
insiduous Notice, whose drift is seen through
with half an eye. 



VOTERS.

BEWARE OF SUCH PITIFUL ATTEMPTS TO EXCITE
YOUR PREJUDICE, AGAINST THE NOBLE AND
HIGHLY TALENTED YOUNG CANDIDATE NOW
SOLICITING YOUR SUPPORT.

D. Fair, Printer, Galashiels.Resignation

OF

M I N I S T E R Y.

A Full, True, and particular Account of the Surprising and Much
Reted News just received by this Evening's London Mail,
of the Resignation of EARL GREY and the Present Ministery,
in conseqxence of their losing their motions for the Reduction of
the Malt and Window Tax Duties,-—With the resolution of the
House of Commons and the Inhabitants of London to Petition
his Majesty for their continuance in Office.

From the Caledonian Mercury, April 29th,  1833.

Ministers having on Friday been most unexpectedly left in a
minority on the subject of the Malt Tax, is confidently reported
that they intend to resign.

A corespondent, whose letter is dated Saturday, half-past five o'-
clock, writes, that " EARL GREY" is with the KING at THIS
MOMENT." There will be great difficulty, however, in accepting
their RESIGNATION, and the prevailing opinion seems to be,
that the HOUSE of COMMONS will vote an address to his MA-
JESTY praying him to RETAIN EARL GREY and his COL-
LEAGUES in Office. The division on the MALT TAX was to
say the least of it, most inconsiderate and rash ; indeed it was
uuite a surprise to every one ; and many who voted against the
MINISTERS are now, we understand, sosely vexel at their
folly. The result of the division was so completely unexpected
that our correspondent, like many others, had left the House, ne-
Ver dreaming of such a denouement, more especially as Govern-
ment had given no notice of attendance.The City, however, it is
believed, will take up the matter immediately, and petition the
King not to accept of the resignation of Lord Grey and his Col-
leagues ; in short, Ministers may threaten to go out, but they will
not be allowed—for who can possibly COME IN at present in their
stead—and all will soon go on smoothly. Some decided demon -
stration on their part has, however, become absolutely necessary.
For the reduction of half the MALT duty, amounting to upwards 
of

                                    TWO MILLIONS.

and the standing notice of motion for a TOTAL REDUCTION of
the HOUSE and WINDOW TAX, which is also likely in the
prosent temper of the House to be carried, would render it im-
possible for any Ministry to carry on the Government of the
Country.Speech of M. DUPONT, the French Atheist.

The late Enormities committed in France need not be so much wondered
at, as any Man of common Humanity would otherwise do, when it is con-
sidered that the Leaders of that miserable Country have thrown off all
Regard to Religion. The following is an exact Translation from a
SPEECH made in the National Convention at Paris, (on the 14th of
December last, in a Debate on the Subject of establishing Public Schools
for the Education of Youth) by Citizen DUPONT, a Member of consider-
able Weight.—And, as the Doctrines contained in it were received with
unanimous Applause, except from two or three .of the Clergy, it may be
fairly considered as an Exposition of the Creed of that enlightened Assembly.
------Translated from LE MONITEUR of Sunday the 16th of December 1792.

WHAT ! Thrones are overturned ! Scep-
tres broken ! Kings expire ! And yet
the Altars of God remain ! (Here there is a
murmur from some Members; and the Abbé
ICHON demands, that the person speaking may
be called to order.)  Tyrants in outrage to Na-
ture Continue to burn an impious Incense on
those Altars ! (Some murmurs arise, but they are
lost in the Applauses from the Majority of the
Assembly.) The Thrones that have been re-
versed, have left these Altars naked, unsup-
ported, and tottering.—A single Breath of en-
lightened Reason will now be sufficient to
make them disappear.—And if Humanity is
under Obligations to the French Nation for
the first of these Benefits, the Fall of Kings,
can it be doubted, but that the French Peo-
ple now Sovereign, will be wise enough, in
like Manner, to overthrow those Altars and
those Idols, to which those Kings have hitherto
made them subject ?—Nature and Reason, these
ought to be the Gods of Men ! These are my
Gods! (Here the Abbé AUDREIN cried out,
" There is no bearing this ;" and rushed out
of the Assembly.—A great Laugh.') Admire
Nature—cultivate Reason.—And you, Legisla-
tors, if you desire that the French People
should be happy—make haste to propagate
these Principles, and to teach them in your
primary Schools, instead of those fanatical
Principles which have hitherto been taught.
The Tyranny of Kings was consined to make
their People miserable in this Life—but those
other Tyrants, the Priests, extend their Domi-
nion into another, of which they have no other
Idea than of eternal Punishments ; a. Doc-
trine which some Men have hitherto had the
Good-nature to believe.—But the Moment of
the Catastrophe is come—all these Prejudices
must fall at the same Time.—We must destroy

them, or they will destroy us.—For myself! I ho-
nestly avow to the Convention—I am an Atheist!
(Here there is some Noise and Tumult—But a
great Number of Members cry out—" What is
that to us—You are an honest Man.")   But
I defy -a single Individual, amongst the Twen-
ty-four. Millions   of Frenchmen,   to   make
against. me any well-grounded Reproach.—
I doubt whether the Christians, or the Catho-
lics, of which the last Speaker, and those of
his Opinion, have been talking to us, can
make the same challenge.—(Great Applauses.)
There is another Consideration—Paris has had 
great Losses.—It has been deprived of the
Commerce  of   Luxury;   of that  factitious
Splendor which was found at Courts, and in-
vited Strangers hither.—Well! We must re-
pair these Losses.—-Let me then represent to
you the Times,   that are fast approaching,
when our Philosophers, whose Names are ce-
lebrated throughout Europe, PETION, SYEYES,
CONDORCET, and others—surrounded in our
Pantheon, as the Greek Philosophers were'at
Athens with a Crowd of Disciples coming
from ail parts of Europe, walking like the
Peripatetics, and teaching—this Man, the Syf-
tem of the Universe, and developing the Pro-
gress of all human Knowledge; that, persec-
tioning the Social System, and shewing in
our decree of the 17th of June 1789, the seeds
of the Insurrections of the 14th of July, and
the 10th of August, and of all those Insurrec-
tions, which are spreading with such Rapidi-
ty throughout Europe—so that these young
Strangers, on their Return to their respective
Countries, may spread the same Lights, and
I may operate for the Happiness of Mankind, simi-
lar Revolutions throughout the World.-------
(Numberless Applauses arose, almost throughout the
whole Assembly—and in the Galleries.)

Note. On a late occasion, the People of Hainault, who have been conquered by France,
presented a petition to the National Convention, complaining, that they were more miserable
than under their former Government. But the President coolly answered, " That they had
" forfeited the first fruits of Liberty by their prejudices, and especially by their Habitudes
" Theocratiques ;" that is to say, their Habit of acknowledging the Existence and Power of God.SPEECH

OF

Sir  Daniel Sandford,

One of the Radical Candidates for the City of Glasgow, at Camlachie, on 6th
December, 1832—Conduct and base Plot of the Edinburgh Whigs to stifle
the New-Born Liberties of Glasgow—The Radicals triumphant.

SIR DANIEL after some preliminary remarks, stated that he had that day
received a letter from Edinburgh, which informed him that the Edinburgh
Whigs "were giving out that they had opposed his pretensions in Glasgow,
because he had not consulted Lord Holland, and because the ministry were op-
posed to him. (Cries of "oh, oh, and laughter.") So here it appeared that the
Edinburgh Whigs were the great movers of the opposition to his pretensions,
and the small whig coterie in this city were the mere slaves of another whig
coterie in the metropolis—(cheers)—mere puppets who moved as the strings
were drawn—who raised their little arms, and followed every mavement just as
it was imparted to them by their Edinburgh keepers. (Much laughter.) Now
ne wished the electors of Glasgow to draw from this fact an important practical
lesson, and he would relate one or two farther particulars to place the matter be-
fore them in a still clearer light. He had in his pocket a letter which he had
received from the Edinburgh whig leader in the important month of June last,
when they were struggling for the security of the Reform Bill, in which that
leader pours forth his whole soul in gratitude to him for his exertions on that
occasion. There was no hostility expressed—no opposition—but all was the
language of eulogium and gratitude—eulogium so high, that had he required a
certificate, as had been found necessary by one of his brother candidates, he
might have laid the document just as it stood before the electors—(laughter)—
but he and his friends needed no certificates—their claims to notice were known
to every elector. Such was the language used towards him by the Edinburgh
whigs during the struggle. But what was it now ? O we must oppose this
impudent fellow, because he presumes to come forward without the sanction of
Lord Holland, contrary to the wishes of the ministry. (Laughter.) He would
ask the electors did they conceive it necessary that Lord Holland should be con-
sulted as to their representatives ; or that they should require the information of
any ministry on the subject ? (Cheers, and cries of No.) But the allegations of the
cabal were not true. He pledged his word of honour as a gentleman, that what he
said on former occasions was true - that some of the liberal ministers had ex-
pressed to him an anxious wish that he should be returned to Parliament; and
as to Lord Holland when last in London that nobleman recommended him strong-
ly to become a candidate for Glasgow, and offered him the whole weight of
the ministerial influence. He replied that he was highly obliged to him, but he
thought that ministerial influence would do more harm than good in Glasgow.
(Cheers). These stories had been trumped up by the barefaced impudent Edin-
burgh Whigs, and their friends, the little cabal of whigs here, for the purpose
of keeping up the influence of their friends here, for whom we had fought the
battle when they were not able to fight it for themselves —(Cheers ) He ought
to apologise for keeping their attention so long to what might appear a personal
question, but he wished to show the electors and the people who the party were
in whom the people should stand most in apprehension at the present moment.
Glasgow could never again be a close corporation burgh, but let them take care
that it does not become a close party borough. (Loud cheers.) He would tell
them another story which showed the designs of the small coterie of whigs act-
ing here. He was in Edinburgh when the passing of the Reform Bill was look-
ed upon as certain, and was a visitor at the house of a leading Whig, when the
subject of who were likely to be candidates for Glasgow was started. It was
remarked as a thing to be hoped for that Mr Oswald would come forward. He
said he did not know whether he would or not, and expressed the great respect
he had for Mr Oswald, both on account of his private character, his consistency
in liberal views, and the hereditary honours he was possessed of, but expressed
his fears that after all, from Mr Oswald's tastes and time of life, he might not
make an efficient member. " O," it was replied, by one of the company, " we
don't want efficient members for Glasgow—we want two good votes."—They want
two good votes—two dead votes—and he supposed they wanted two dumb votes,
too. (Laughter.) He thought he might be able to show the motive for all this.
All the patronage and all the influence for Scotland had hitherto flowed in one
channel—Edinburgh ; and the Edinburgh Whigs were fearful lest Glasgow
should interfere with this snug preserve of their own, and therefore wished that
she should return only two dumb votes. He put it to the electors if they would
allow this free burgh—for it was now virtually free, to become a mere appendage
to the burgh of Edinburgh. (No, no.) This was the ground of the attempt to
force on the citizens two nominees by the small coterie, and all the opposition
made to him and to the other independent candidates. (Cheers.) If he had suc-
ceeded in producing a conviction in their minds that a plot had been formed to
stifle the new-born liberties of Glasgow, it lay with them to crush the design.
More than one candidate was before them free from the trammels of any cabal
—who were not the nominees of any party, ready to do their work, be it dirty
or clean, but whose whole labours would be in the service of the people. It
would be their own fault if they did not at this crisis send independent men to
Parliament in whom they could vest the destinies of the country for weal or for
woe ; unfettered men, who would not give dumb votes, but who would raise
their voices on every subject which affected the interests of the country. Sir
Daniel then repeated his sentiments on church establishments and the corn laws,
and concluded amid great applause."

These are the actions of men who would force and cajol the Independent
Electors of Edinburgh to elect a PENSIONER for our good city.STATE of the  POLL




Death of the Council.

Just published, the melancholy Death of the Town Coun-
cil of the City of Edinburgh, with an account of   the
Legacy which they have left to the inhabitants at their
demise;   also the state of the Poll at Closing, giving
the names of the New Council  elected this day.

DEATH of THE Town COUNCIL.—Among the deaths of
the week, we have this day to record the demise of the
Town Council of Edinburgh. That august body has given 
up the ghost,—we wish we could say in the liberal sense,
paid the debt. The admirers of the Council, however,
will be happy to learn that it died game—that its last act
was a job,and that it shewed no symptoms of that weak-
ness known by the name of death-bed repentance. To
speak nothing but good of the dead is an admirable precept.
but one which, in the present instance,for the sake of
the living, must be violated. Had the works of the Coun- 
cil died with them, the case would have been very differ-
ent, but they have left us a little legacy, which will long
 "keep their memory green in oua souls," and we hope in
the souls of their immediate successors, as an antidote
against all jobbing in time to come. As was pretty gen-
erally anticipated, the late city rulers disregarded the pe-
tition of the inhabitants to allay the vacancy in the Trinity
College Church, occasioned by the removal of Mr Tait
to remain unfilled up until the appearance of the bill for
regulating the Annuity Tax. But we have done, and let
  us be thankful that the old corporation are at their rest,
that these incarnate jobs have gone down unwipt, un-
honoured and unsung.

The following is a correct List of those Gentlemen who
stood highest in the List at the two first Polling Places.
FIRST DISTRICT.           James M'Kay, Jeweller            

Polling Place, Merchants' Hall.      James Graham, Architect,           

James Aytoun, advocate.                  Alexander M'Aulay, M. D.          

William Tait, booksellers                  Thomas Paton, Architect

Robert Jamieson, advocate                 John Anderson Jun

Ralph Richardson, tobacconist         P. Crooks, W.S.
James Spirtal, haberdasher                William Cowan, Mercer,

Andrew Ballour, printer                    William Carnegie Wine merchant

Thomas   Edmonston,  Ironmooger   William Young. Builder,
Thomas  Sawers, Baker,                     James Newton late Baker,

Andrew  Miller, Agent,                        Francis Howden

Robert Gray. Saddler,                     Patrick Neil Printer

The  first  six were duly elected          Professor Lizars

SECOND DlSTRICT.             Dr. Sanders

Polling Place, Waterloo Rooms,               FOURTH DISIRICT.

William Purves, Clothier          191   Polling Place,a shop in North Fred-

 Robert Thomson, merchant      211                   derick Street.

James M'Farlane, druggist     222       Messrs. John   Craig, Grainger.
Alexander Black, bookseller      207   Blackie,    Henderson,   Robertson.

Duncan M'Laren,  haberdasher  149   Wingrave, and Chalmbers
John Wardlaw, bookseller        108               FIFTH DISTRICT.

.--------- Pillins, printer               86     Polling Place, Hopetoun Rooms,

Andrew Walker, silversmith      94       Messrs.    Donaldson,   Tennant.
D. Gentle clothier.                    75   Alexander, Smith  Hay. Phillip.    

State of the poll at 3 o'clock.         Mackay, and Patrickson.

  THIRD DISTRICT.              The three last did not publish.

      Polling  Place Albany  street.    Forbes,  Printer  Rattarys Court.THE

Cardinal's Coach Couped.

OR   THE
Whigs Lamentation  for the Episcopal Toleration,
Licenced and Entered according to Order.

A Las! Our Kirk has got a Scoup,
  Upon her Covenanted Doup,
  I fear the run the Gantlet Loup,
For all her Leagues.
The Cardinal has got a Coup,
                        With's Dutch Intrigues.
for fear Sachevert shou'd worrie
Our Darling Kirk, he in a Hurrie
Gets up, and cries Poor Folk of Currie,
                             Again we'll be ;
Unless you Sighing Sisters stir ye,
And joyn with me.
He made more Haste than was good Speed,
Poor Man he couped Arse o're Head,
for which our Hearts were like to bleed,
                                   When we it saw,
His very Coach-horse out of dread,
                        Him would not draw.
Such Overturning is not common,
I fear it prove a Fatal Omen,
And rouze the Courage of the Roman,
                            And Curate Loons ;
To Bothwel Bridge then we shall go Man,
                    Get they their Gowns.
Alas ! our Sport is like to spill,
Since we have lost our Billie Will,
A Man may see of little Skill,
                   We'l be undone,
Get they a Toleration Bill,
       We'l change our Tune.
And truely I think it's no Wonder,
Tho' we meet with a Clap of Thunder,
Considering how great a Blunder
Of no old Date ;
Say what we will, we labour under,
                    In Kirk and State.
For now the Government well sees:
We preach the things we don't practise,
The guilded Bait that dims our Eyes,
                      Is Pride and Self,
Tho Parity we do Idolize,
Yet more our Pelf.
Again its known, that Presbytry,
Can ne're consist with Monarchy,
Our Kingdom, Crown, Antiquity,
                      At last we Sold,
A thing will make our Memory
                      Stink when its told.
Murder of Kings, or Abdication,                
Are most Conspicuous Demonstration,
Of Presbyterian Moderation,
            We only want
To take the Oath of Abjuration,
                 To make a Saint.
But now I see the Government,                   
With this Prelatick Parliament,
To cast us off are fully bent ;
                  So let use be
Upon our Guard the more intent,
Before we Flee.
Saul in a strait to Witch of Endor,
   And Sweden's King to Turk at Bender,
Made their Address; so let us render ,
                      What e're befall,
Our Kirk and Cause to one that's tender,
Of our Caball.
Then my Advice is you will hear,
The fittest Man is Major Weir;
Let's Yelp, and Yell till he appear,
With's Staff in Hand,
T think We need the less to fear,       
                If he Command.
He'll leave the gloomy Shades below,
Some Stratagem to us he'll show,
How we may reach a Fatal blow   
To Prelacie ;
Or of our Danger let us know
                  The Certaintie.
With rousty Rappiers in our Hand,
Spades, Forks, and Grapes as we demand,
Like Egypt's Locusts thro' the land,
We'l fill each place,
And match in Covenanted Band,
Like Babes of Grace
And if we chance to lose the Field
Forc'd to the Curat Lowns to yeild,
We'l take our Heels for the best Shield,
And from some Sister;
Beneath her Petticoat get Bield.
               In our great Mister.
And yet I cannot shun to smile
When I think on the Canting Stile,
We used in our late Exile,                    
To mend our Breeks;
For well I mind it all the while,             
We grew like Greeks.
For our Extemporary Lecture,   
We drank the purest of the Nectar,
When once my Lady's Woman  deckt her:
And which was best,
The Laird himself durst not us Hector, 
                Tho' her we drest.
Lest you should think I'm speaking Lies,
Bear witness House of Cherry-trees, 
Where D---ie strove the Niece to please,
Instead of Daughter;
And hid himself between her Thighs,
For fear of Saughter.
From such a warm Herculian Task,
Proceeds Mas J-- of In---sk,     
Who apes his Daid without a Masque.
                Nor is it strange,
The Liquor favour of the Cask,
Nor's Nature change.
As mindfull Salmond strive to be,   
At place where they were Spawn'd ; so he,
Still thinks upon the Cherry-tree,              
             Glad to Embrace,
Some pleasaut Object to the Eye ;
In such a place.
Beneath this Tree, he did espy,
A Lady Fair, and none her by,
With rude Address he made her cry;
Till her Good Man 
Came with his Cane, then speedily.
Away he ran.

LONDON, Printed by John Morphew near Stationers-Hall. 1711.THE

EDINBURGH    ELECTOR'S

ALPHABET;

OR.

A GUIDE TO THE POLL.

A  is for Aytoun , a radical true ;

B  is for Bottom , who looks very blue ;

C  is for Campbell, just fresh from his journey ;

D is for Dudley, that dish'd the Attorney ;

E is Edina insulted full sore ;

F is for Francis, whose glory is o'er ;

G is for Graham, who was kick'd out of Perth ;

H is, for Hobhouse, fit subject for mirth ;

I   is for Ireland, who beats up recruits ;

J   is Sir James, who now sleeps in his boots ;

K is King Thomson, most graceful to see ;

L is John Learmonth, unfetter'd and free ;

M is for Millar, an aggregate Whig;

N is for Nimmo, a radical sprig ;

O  is for Ormelie, who gave Murray battle ;

P   is for Peter, who smashes such cattle ;

Q is our own constitutional Queen ;

R  is the old Rump that looks rather lean;

S   is " a person they call Andrew Skene."

T  is SIR THOMAS, a waver of hats ;

U is most Useful in throwing brick bats ;

V is the Viper upon our Church wall;

W 's Wellington, foremost of all;

X is the Cross, with the hustings thereon ;

Z  is a Zany, who votes for Sir John.THE

LIBERAL'S CATECHISM,

DROPT, AT THE MEETING OF   THE   FOURTH DISTRICT,
ON FRID AY LAST,

BY ONE OF THE CLIQUE.

Quest.    Are you a candidate for a seat in the Town Council ?
Ans.    Yes, I am.

Q.    To what party do you belong ?
A.    I am a Liberal.

Q. Will you have the goodness to explain what you mean by that
term ?
A. I mean true liberality, which consists in excluding from all power
or influence every person whose political sentiments differs in the slightest

degree from my own.

Q.    But have politics any thing to do with the Town Council ?
A. Not much; but it is evident that it would be very disagreeable
for Liberals to act along with, or under the inspection of Tories, or even
Radicals.

Q.   You are of course a man of independent principles ?
A. Assuredly. I have been named by a select and exclusive com-
mittee, of which I am a member.

Q.    Pray, what is independence ?
A. There are many things goes to constitute true independence; but no
one can say he is an independent member of a deliberative body, unless he
have previously pledged himself on every question that may come under
discussion.

Q.    You are then willing to take a pledge ?
A.    Any pledge.

Q.    What are your views regarding the Annuity Tax ?
A. I consider it to be the grand abomination foretold by Daniel, and
I shall move " Heaven, earth,and hell" for its total extirpation.

Q. What is your opinion about substituting some other tax in its
stead, in order to make provision for the Clergy ?
A. I am a warm friend to the Established Church, as well as to the
eternal principles of justice; and therefore, if the seat rents cannot be
secured for the support of the Clergy, I pledge myself to make no com-
pulsory assessment " within the Roy-allity" for the present incumbents,
and to appoint no successors.

Q.    What are your views regarding the Provost's salary ?
A. I think the dignity of that office cannot be well maintained upon
less than L.40 per annum, being at the rate of L. 10 per quarter; but,
being pledged to the strictest economy, if a man can be found who will
undertake to perform its duties for less, he shall have my vote. Indeed,
in the present state of the City's finances, it may be a question whether
it would not be advisable to expose the office to public auction. Perhaps
a sum might thus be raised, which would go so far to compensate the
Clergy for the loss of the Annuity Tax.

Q. Suppose some distinguished stranger, say a foreign prince, were
to visit Edinburgh, he might very reasonably expect to be entertained
by the Chief Magistrate at his own house—what provision should be
made for such an event ?

A. I would make no provision; but if the Provost invited the
Council to meet his distinguished guest, and would submit to the next
meeting a statement of the expenses incurred, I would feel disposed to
grant a certain compensation, under deduction of what might reason-
ably be supposed to be the ordinary expenses of the Provost's family,
and the value of the fragments.

Q. Would you accept of any civic place or contract while in the
Council ?

A. No—that would be mercenary and unworthy an independent
Councillor; but were a place to become vacant, I should certainly use
my best endeavours to confer it on the most deserving person, and should
the Council, by a plurality of votes, fix upon me, I should immediately
resign my seat, that the public interest might not suffer by my attention
being divided. But as to contracts, as the Council will, in all probability'
consist of tradesmen and shopkeepers, I am of opinion, that the most
economical plan would be to confine the contracts to Members of
Council. This will save much trouble—prevent much bad blood,—and
enable the members who has consented to sacrifice so much of their
valuable time for the commonweal, to combine private with public

business.

Q.    In what do you conceive the duties of a Councillor to consist ?

A. In " adApting" measures for the removal of the monstrous
Annuity Tax, and for reducing the Provost's salary to the lowest possible
fraction.

Q. Is there nothing else—such as disposing of the City's extensive
patronage in the Church and University ?

A. I regard all these things as matters with which I, as a Councillor
has very little to do. When a vacancy occurs, I would feel disposed to
call a public meeting to ascertain the sentiments of my constituents. But
for myself, I certainly feel, that the same rule ought to apply to all offices
as to the situation of Provost, and that the preference should be given
to the person who would do the duties for the smallest remuneration,
or who would make the Council the highest offer.

Q. Do you think the proceedings of the Town Council ought to be
regularly reported ?

A.     Most assuredly.    How else could our constituents be enabled to

judge of our progress in grammar and oratory?

                                                  Price One Penny.To the EDITOR of the SUNDAY REVIEW.

SIR,

AS I understand you are a Caledonian, it is not unlikely that an
account of our Burgh Politics may afford you some gratification. Our
Election came on yesterday; Laird D—d, the Banker, is re-elected Lord
Mayor, with general approbation.—-A. respectable South Bridge Merchant
was proposed for First Bailie ; but as he declined the honour, the choice
fell on the late " Lord D—g—l," the Ironmonger. The Nephew of a cer-
tain Reverend Gentleman, whose name stands very high in the republic of
letters, wished the Treasurership, but that was previously secured by one
more in favour. J—y W—r, made a bold push for D—n of G—d ; but
he was out-tongued by C—r's sweet-meat oratory. The Old Convener,
and Young Rapid, are made Trades Counsellors. The Deacons were pretty
cordially elected, except last year's marrow-bone and cleaver Chief, who
had shamefully demeaned himself, by subscribing a petition to the H—e of
C------s, which he knew was not consistent with truth, and which, he was
well aware, was directly contrary to the wish of his Constituents. He was
therefore grazed, (i. e. he was dismissed from office at the end of his first
year's service,) and a new one chosen in his stead. But when he found this
was to be the case, he ran off with the Clerk of the Incorporation's Return 
to the Council of the Leet of Six Members, from which the new Deacon
was to be chosen, with the pitiful view of preventing a new Election al-
together for twelve months; the silly fool not dreaming that another Re-
turn could always be had from their Minute-book. But while he was in
concealment, his mother was in dreadful terror for the safety of her son ;
and therefore, after due consultation with the Commissary and Rob, the
following Handbill was stuck on every lamp-post, and even on the gates of
the Tripe-market:

" LOST OR STRAYED——A gawkey-looking Lad, wi' fair hair, a sharp
" neb, and shrivelled chin:   had on a dark coat, wi' clear buttons, and
" walks like a water-wagtail:—talks muckle about being a D------n, but
" says he is ganging to the grazing;—has a paper in his pouch, whilk
" he ca's a Leet;—frequently speaks about he and his mither's man dining
" wi' ane Sir William, and says he got a promise of being made L------d
" H------—k's,Jackall.    Whaever will secure the Callan, sae as he may
" be restored for the comfort of friends, will be rewarded to their hearts    
" satisfaction."

This had the desired effect; the Lad was found, and he and his friends
now " glory " in suffering for what they style true patriotism.

I am, Sir, &c.

TOM PEEP.

Ancient Burgh, E******h, 7th October 1807.TO THE        

Prospective Electors

OF

ROXBURGHSHIRE.

IT appears that LORD JOHN SCOTT'S friends are giving it
out that he is a REFORMER ! with the view it is supposed of catch-
ing a few stray Votes. But this won't do. It is not yet forgotten
that Lord JOHN attended a Meeting of Freeholders, &c. at JEDBURGH,
on 21st March, 1831, when he voted out and out against the REFORM
BILLS, and signed petitions to both Houses of Parliament praying
that they might not pass into a law.          .
	
THE County Records therefore prove that Lord JOHN is a
DECIDED ANTI-REFORMER, and he is supported alone by that
party in the County. The object of the Anti-Reformers is to trip up
the present enlightened Government, to which you are indebted for
the Elective Franchise. Your object should be to support that Go-
vernment at least by your first Vote, to shew your gratitude for the
privilege conferred on you. This you can only do by voting for the
HON. CAPT. GEORGE ELLIOT, who is a Member of the Govern-
ment to which you owe so much, and a Gentleman well qualified by
his talents and experience to represent you in Parliament. How can
the Anti-Reformers ask your Vote for Lord JOHN SCOTT, when they
did every thing in their power to prevent you from having a Vote to
give ? The most of you are already expressly pledged, and all of
you are bound by your principles to vote -for a Reformer, Who will
support the present Government : and there is now no doubt what-
ever, that CAPT. ELLIOT, who has just arrived from LONDON, will be
returned by an overwhelming and triumphant majority.

4th July, 1832.TWELVE QUERIES
to the
CITIZENS of GLASGOW.

Query 1.
IF the Speaker on the 23d of February, 1784, lives in the
neighbouring city, and pays no stent to the town, and no
tax to the poor, and does not own the authority of the
Provost, nor even the power of a town-officer to seize a de-
linquent in the neighboring city, what right had he to speak
in that meeting ?

Query 2.
Being allowed however to speak, did he inform you in
a very intelligible manner that you were stupid, contempti-
ble, interested, and the smugglers of an address to the K.? 
If so, What right had he to break through an established
rule in speaking; which is, " To set out with courting the
" good will of the audience", Unless it was to shew the good-
ness of his cause, and the power of his eloquence, by telling
you that you were not only stupid and contemptible, but a
parcel of s-?

Query 3.
Stupid and Contemptible as you were represented, did
he find that you instantly resented his behaviour, by hissing
at him, by rattling with your sticks, and by forming a plan,
if he had spoken again, to send him down stairs much fas-
ter than he came up ?

Quiry 4.
Was there any man in that meeting who Could be so
Much as supposed to be personally interested in the successs
of that address, excepting the speaker himself, to whom the
last Ministry attempted to give the office of L. A. and af-
terwards that of K. S. ?  Was not this modesty ?

Query 5.
Did three facts prove that your address was smuggled ?
The meeting was called for the avowed purpose of making
an address, and not for a different one, like his famous meet-
ing which was held in the neighbouring city.  The business
of addressing was not communicated to a few, as was the
case of the famous address, but to the whole world.  Your
address was not carried like the famous one by the minority,
but by a prodigious majority of the whole meeting. Was
there not good reason then to charge you with stupidity,
since you published in the newspapers what you had a mind
to conceal, and since there is no making you believe that
four is the majority of nine, which is the majority of six-
teen, the addressing members in the neighbouring city ?

Query 6.
Were you not unjust in not allowing another person,
Master Cocky Bung, to speak to you against the address ; 
for he certainly had a perfect right, not only to make a
noise, but a noise as a citizen ; because, it is well known,
that he made a noise for many years upon old barrels, and
in your city ; and because he showed his gratitude for that
privilege, and for the bursaries to which he had been pre-
sented by the town, by insulting your Provost, when he
made a visit in the neighbouring city ; in which hospitable
business he was assisted with much humanity by Penna
Pennae, Esquire. 

Query 7.
Were you not both unjust and foolish in hindering Mr.
Bung to make a speech ; for his arguments, like those of
the Speaker, would have served your cause; they being,
on all occasions, like the sound of his old trade, without
clearness, force, or elegance; while they are overlaid with
the dunting of hard words, he being as remarkable in the
north for such stuff, as Samuel Johnson is in the south; so
that when he wrote a pamphlet like him, it was no imitation,
but true nature, having only brought himself down from
the superlative to the comparative degree, which made it
impossible for the reviewers to tell, which was the counter-
feit, and which was the man.

Query 8.
Was it not unjust in you to allow one of your number,
and when standing upon one foot, to ask Mr. Bung, whe-
ther the speaker meant by a smuggled address the famous
one in the neighbouring city; and to allow another to give
Mr. Bung the lie, dividing his words into syllables, that a
grammarian, might be at no loss to understand them?   Will
it not be good for Mr. Bung to soap his nose, till he learns
something like the manners of a gentleman ?

Query 9.
Was it foolish in you not to encourage the speaker and
Mr. Bung, who, in the course of their reasoning, would
have told you many fine things about religion, and repu-
blics; and the great good which the Fox will produce by
his reformations; such as the taking away of finecures, and
at the same time granting pensions; such as the giving
100,000 l. instead of 50,000 l. to the P. W. such as the
taking away of charters without an equivalent, destroying
a mercantile company by an act of power, and destroying
the mode of trying individuals as established by King,
Lords, and Commons ; so that there will be no longer any
trials with open doors, with aid of council, and extracts,
which glorious system of republican liberty they actually
brought into practice about nine months ago, till they were stopt
by the Judges of the King? You will remember too how
they acted in expelling a student for a supposed incivility to
One of themselves, for no proof could be brought of what
was in private, even by their own tale. You may judge of
the Fox and his party from his underlings in this country.
And will it not be delightful to get a rival commercial
company destroyed by applying to him and his faction;
and to get any person tried to whom you have a dislike,
with shut doors, without counsel, without extracts, and
without the check of the King's judges, who are guided
by no ideas of republican liberty, but only by law, and
by justice?

Query 10.
Have you not been imposed upon by the merit which
the Fox takes to himself from his India bill ? There are only
three things in it that deserve your attention. The sove-
reignty, the commerce, and the patronage. As to the
 first you will observe, that it is not the sovereignty of a king,
  but of a republic ; and of a republic which has far excelled
 even Nero in every art that can fix disgrace on human na-
ture.   All are now agreed, that the sovereignty of this re-
public should be destroyed, because it is an usurpation, and
the most oppressive of all governments. Nor is this wonder-
full, for it is well known to the historian, that the greatest
of all tyrannies have been exercised in republics, both an-
cient and modern.  The only question then is about the
best method of destroying the sovereignty of this tyrannical
usurpation, so as to do justice to the poor Indians.  The
Fox therefore and his trumpeter have no merit on this
head, because it is the cry of every man, woman, and child.
But consider the other two branches of his bill, and there
you will see political prostigacy in the highest perfection,
First, he attempted to break a chartered right, without so
much as pretending to give an equivalent ; so that by the
same rule he may seize every charter in the kingdom, upon
finding that the persons to whom it is given, have exceeded
their power, which he and his friends will always find with
the greatest expedition. Secondly, he declared a company
of merchants bankrupt, and seized their property, not by
the operations of a court of law, which every merchant,
and every British subject is entitled to, but by the long
arm of legislative power. And, thirdly, he vested the ma-
nagement of this mercantile company, not in the proprie-
tors, nor in persons named by the Crown, as the executive
part of our constitution, in which case it would have been
under three checks, that of the King, Lords, and Commons ;
but in the uncontroulable junto of the majority of the House
of Commons, so that the Earl of ----- in England,
andWHIGGERY'S

Withered Trunk put forth a Leaf.

THE County of Roxburgh was already tired with the foolish, bom-
bastic, and unmeaning offusions of sciolistic and shallow witted Politicians;
the walls had been covered with Placards containing recitals and re-recitals
of circumstances which had no existence, save in the imaginations of their
authors ; and every body was anxiously longing for the cessation of such
bare faced effrontery, when the public was again troubled with the Letter
of a fellow Elector, setting forth the brilliant and extraordinary success
of the Honourable Captain G. ELLIOT, in a style of language, in pompo-
sity and bombast far exceeding any former production of the kind, and
alike destitute of any thing that is to be found in sound argument, as it is
of common sense.

Let it be observed that the Captain's return to Parliament is by no
means yet ascertained to be so sure as this Elector would fain make it to
be believed; but that there yet exists some doubt as to the certain occur-
rence of this event even in his mind, is very evident, from the strenuous
efforts he makes to forward his cause ; nay more, it is positively affirmed
that the brilliant and triumphant success of CAPTAIN ELLIOT exists only
in the minds of his hired and blustering braggadocios.

Notwithstanding of all that has been said and sung of CAPTAIN
ELLIOT'S Claims upon this County, I would ask, WHAT ARE THEY ?
His story may be made plain and simple, and told in a very few words, -
He was a Naval Captain for about 26 years, he has been a Secretary to
the Admiralty for one year, and during all that time, (having nothing
worthy of credit to the contrary) it may be concluded that he drew his
pay, and acted just like any other person under similar circumstances.
But oh ! how amusing it is to see how his exploits are wrought up so as
to approach almost to the marvellous: we are told he was at the siege of
this, and assisted at the blockade of that; was at the demolishing of this 
fortress, and the storming of that citadel; and, in short, his exploits are
made nearly to match With those of Jack the Giant Killer, or the Adven-
tures of Robinson Crusoe; and when these are credited and admired,
CAPTAIN ELLIOT'S Claims for praise may then be given in.

The two Competitors in the field of Roxburgh do in some respects
resemble each other; neither of them has one fur of land in the County ;
they are both already in the service of their Country; they are both per-
sonally respectable, and scions of respectable and noble families; they are
both alike untutored in parliamentary business; in these things they re-
semble : in others, there is less similitude; in the number of their years
they differ widely; and lastly, they differ wider far in their oratorial and
intellectual endowments, - the one talks like a clown, the other like a
thorough bred orator, - the one appears a giant in intellect, the other only
a schoolboy.              

One word regarding this person who calls himself a Fellow Elector ;
what a kindly fellow feeling he seems to have with the Honourable CAP-
TAIN, how cruse he is ! but oh, methinks, how he will quake and tremble
when the subject of unmerited Pensions is brought before a Reformed
Parliament; and his services to his country will have to be brought out
in array, and the question will be asked, WHAT WERE THEY ?

And one word to my good Electors ! be not swayed by the fulsome
stuff that is offered to you, but let your own judgment direct you in your
choice ; come and examine the Candidates for your suffrages, and when
you do this bring with you the scales of candour, cleansed from the rust
of prejudice by the hands of intelligent modesty.

Wishing you much joy in your new privileges,
I am yours,

A LOOKER ON.
5th Sept. 1832.

A Scots Answer to a British Vision

Quantum est Divisibile in ea quæ insunt, quorum utrumque vel unumquodque Unum
quod & boc aliquod aptum  est  esse.   Arist. De Qyantitate.

Two British Wits Conspir'd,
A Scotish Dream to Answer,
Both equally Inspir'd
With Nonsence, Punns and  Banter ;
Sense smil'd to see                    

Them so agree                       

In Bluntness and Stupiditie.     

Their Plot was so well laid,
That Rhime flow'd from the North;
And what the Southern said

Was Cant and Noisie Froth-          

No Man Alive                         

Could so Contrive                    

This Bum-bee-Hive.                 

When your Squadrons do brake,

Is it thus that they Rallie? 

Must a Bard and a Snake

Be the first makes a Sallie ?

Can a Virgin regain                  

What she's lost of  her Fame,

By so Foppish a Train ?     

Where Similies bite

Thick Sculls do not know

A Cat from a Kite,                    

Their Pulse beats so low.

It is then no Wonder               

That their pitiful Blunder        
Pass for Lightning and Thunder. 

By this the World may see
Whence the Maggot does bite,
Since'a Rake and a Cullie,
A Doctor and a Bullie
Must  touch a Court's Fee,
And do their worst to Unite,

Thus Thames and Tine,              }

Without Reason or Rhime.,       }
Do most fondly Combiner

When Reasoning'sanswer'd

By Seconded Votes,
And Speeches are Banter'd .

By Outfield Turn-Coats,
Then Sirenge and Condum   

Come both in Request,
While Virtuous Quondam

Is Treated in Jest.

When Highlands and London,

Agree to make Druids,
Then our union is half done,

It wants but some Fluids,
By a full Draught of Goat-whay

And a Wench by the middle,
You may fall on a Way

To Decipher my Riddle.

Thus I've Rumag'd the Hulk,

To find out some Good Ware,
But nothing of Bulk

Appears to be there:
Since its so then be gone,

Consult your Enstruther,
And let Squadrons go on

To Murder their Mother.

To Answer them all
Would Torture the Devil,

But I have at a Call   

What will Conjure you Civil ;

For what Remains,            ( Brains.

   Wants Words, Rhime, Sense  and
   Adieu Messieur'sCALEDONIA'S DETERMINATION.

Caledonia no more shall by Tories be school'd,
Too long by the knaves she's already been rul'd:
And the Whig's but a Tory in sheep-skin disguise,
On the loaves and the fishes each fixes his eyes:
Each is ready to knuckle to wealth and to power,
And yield to the Minister in for the hour.
But the friend of the people—the radical soul—
Let him be the chief, and the first at the poll.
Since coaches are made for the proud and the rich,
I scarcely would trust to the Coachmaker's pitch ;
He'd be blazoning arms on the pannels of state,
And greasing his wheels in the midst of debate.
From lawyers, God keep us, of every degree !
Their only constituents are fat bribes and fee.
Then up with our Aytoun, the man of our hearts,
Who joins independence with wisdom and parts;
He never will flinch his high duty to do,
Nor unite in cabal, whether former or new:
As a Radical ought, he will strike to the root,
And corruption's vile scabs sear from head to the
foot.
He's his country's friend, to the sap and the core,
And  each change my-coat-trick from his heart
will abhor.
Auld Reekie, Auld Reekie, thou fam'd ancient
town,
Which science and learning have filled with re-
nown,
Who's natives are loyal, free-hearted, and bold,
In the days that are now, as in ages of old;
Twere a vile lying proxy, that ever should stand,
If not firm with thee, heart in heart, hand in hand,
To redress each abuse that distresses the Isles,
To fetter all tyrants, to baffle all wiles ;—
Each foe to true freedom to spurn and defy : 
For freedom to speak, to live, and to die.A full, true, & particular Account

OF ALL

THE DOGS,

WHICH MEET EVERY TUESDAY, AT

THE GRAND TOWN-COUNCIL KENNEL,

With a full description of all their qualities, as exhibited at the

PROVOST HUNT,

On TUESDAY, 29th November 1842.



1st—Chimpanzee, or Sleepy-Jamie, a small liver coloured puppy, a most unhappy tem-
pered whelp, a great snarler, bites right and left, has evidently a touch of mange, not liked in
the Kennel from his bad propensities ; this dog had his tail bit off last month, which has
made him much more vicious.

2d.—Client. This dog is good tempered, with training would make a good retreiver, but
posseses the vice of smelling bitches when sent an errand, and often lags by the water-side.

3d—Tot. A Scotch poodle-dog, good tempered, and though slow, follows steady : from
his general appearance he seems to have been pupped with a silver-spoon in his mouth, and
if put on low diet, might do his work better.

4th—Solicitor. Is a staunch West-country dog, of the Deer-hound breed, has a good
nose, he is a sure leader on the scent .

5th—Pomatum. A soft-haired dog, has lately come out as a leader in the Pack, has more
bottom than brains, and smells strong of his lair.

6th—Baps. A ferocious looking dog, a good ratter, though he is understood to have
none of the Terrier in him, being a cross between the lurcher and the colley; is easily cowed
by the Whipperin, but hunts well in the Parsons' pack.

7th—Dean. A Poodle, was trained by a Stockingweaver, who kept him for his wool;
of course, not well bred ; and when he breaks from the kennel, is often found in strange
company. This dog wants pluck, and at a sharp brush may be found running south with his
tail between his legs.

8th— Bangor.    A slate coloured dog, is fond of giving mouth on a false scent ; runs after
the boys when they cry " Maister, Maister," a thorough messen, seems proud of his hair, and
at night often earths at the foot of Leith Wynd.
  (All these dogs are kept chained, that they may frighten, but not worry Beggars & Thieves.)

9th—Knight. This dog is good at starting game, but wants perseverance to hunt it down ;
he is a general favourite in the Pack, though often at fault ; he is sickly, which may account for
his apparent want of energy and bottom.

10th—Schneider. A clumsy dog, a sort of nondescript, a regular babbler, bred by a
tailor, too fat for work, often mangie, which he cures by eating bow-kail. The trail of an old
buckle will lead him off the scent.

11th— Brush. A good sharp dog, makes no noise and runs close; always in at the death,
and has turned up a great many hares in his day.

12th—Typo. A large stout clumsy dog. has damaged his teeth worrying his neighbours. 'when
kept in the Police Kennel ; having been found straying unmuzzled, on the High street, during
the dog days ; he was presented to this Kennel by the Gentlemen of the first ward, who had
long hunted with him and prized him much ; a quiet dog, but very ferocious when at-
tacked : Chimpanzee goes much easier to his work when this dog is muzzled : on the
whole, an ugly customer.

13th—Pompey. A vain dog, a cross between a turnspit and a lady's poodle, doubles on
the scent, so that no good dog will follow his lead, silky haired, and bites his own tail, very
fond of burrowing in meadows, where he lately found a Mare's Nest ; has a good nose after
stolen goods, and was much prized for this in the Police Kennel ; snuffs keenly at turf.

14th—Wasp. A wiry-haired Scotch Terrier, entered to the vermin by a thin Mason ; fond
of burrowing in the Cowgate, where he finds Game to his taste ; backs Typo in barking at
Chimpanzee. He and Typo hunt well in couples ; he is of the right sort.

15th—Cleaver. A large rough grey Sheep-dog, with a stubborn temper, and a few
good points.

16th—Quill. A smooth Terrier, staunch at his work ; makes no noise in the Kennel.

17th—Cameleon. A smooth oily-skinned sad dog, on which none can depend, apt to slip
out of the hands of the Whipperin ; invariably lifts his leg on the stone which Chimpanzee
has watered : was turned out of the Kennel for the mange, but was driven back by the mob
and the Parsons' Pack : howls loud when the Whipper lashes Chimpanzee.

18th—Bolus. A small light dog, seems from his smell to roll himself up in assafœtida,
barks vicious whenever Chimpanzee shows his teeth ; is apt to be led off the scent when a
Parson crosses it; otherwise a good dog.

19th-Pewter-Pot.    A long lank useless whyte dog.    N.B.—May be had cheap.

20th—Tick-Tick. A slovenly meagre dog, lately taken into the Kennel for want of a
better : is in bad condition, though a good feeder ; was a snarler, but is quiet under Chim-
panzee and Cameleon ; looks ill as his coat is bad.

21st—Hairy. An old dog of great bottom ; a Mastiff with a dash of the Bull in him,
holds well, and at a worry shews more game than the whole Pack ; has a panchent for rub-
bing against cloth.

22d—Brief. A Foxhound of the true breed, has a great antipathy to Asses, sometimes
shy, but when roused, he goes through his work in earnest, and with effect; supposed to have
been pupped on Logan Braes.

23d—Ruble. Got by Plaster. A pawky dog, but is understood to hunt well when stark
and unincumbered with couples.

24th—Hod.    An old stiff dog, nearly worn out, always lifts his leg after Chimzpanzee.

25th—Crispin. A dull heavy dog, good for nothing, except appearance ; howls loud when
out of the Kennel, but never in it.—A dog of no pluck.

26th—Ned.     A lame dog but a good one.

27th—Bill-the- Younger. A young dog not much known, but shews good points : if well
trained, will prove useful.

28th—Exchange.   A quiet good dog, but easily led off the scent by a Church or a Parson.

29th—Clifton.    A high bred and gentle dog, but sometimes loses scent like the former.

30th—Doctor.    A harmless dog ; has swallowed many pills, prescribed by the Parsons.

31st—Tory.    A singularly coloured dog, considered staunch, new to the Pack.

32d—Conservatine. This dog is not new to the Pack, is well known, feeds well, and is
very quiet

33d—Kipps. A new dog, black and tanned, from Forfarshire, is rather quiet, but expec-
ted to be a good working Terrier, particularly in drawing Apes and such-like vermin.                                            COMMONS 

BRITANNIA, based on the Commons, throwing off the Trammels of Corruption.

FELLOW CITIZENS ! AND FELLOW COUNTRYMEN !

			WE rejoice to unite with you in mutual congratulations over
the happy event which has this day brought us together. Scotland is now, for the first time,
in a situation which realises the aspirations of the best and most enlightened of her sons,-
SHE IS FREE ! and her freedom is founded on a rock ; for its maintenance is committed
o the virtue and intelligence of her people, from whom, we feel assured, that no earthly
power shall be able to wrest it.

For a century past every liberal Scotsman has mourned over the political condition of
his country. He has seen corruption spread its roots through all our institutions; not un-
frequently he has endured oppression, and sought justice upon the oppressor in vain; he has
seen abuses maintained which insulted reason; the public money wasted, and the public
good sacrificed to private interest ; and above all, he has seen the voice and feelings of the
people treated with habitual contempt. Whatever share of liberty or good government we
possessed in such circumstances, was held merely at the pleasure of our rulers, who never
hesitated to deprive us of the most sacred rights of Freemen, when they thought it neces-
sary to silence the complaints which their own unrighteous acts had called forth !

Fellow Citizens! a brighter day at length opens on our country. The guardianship of
our liberties is now committed to a body of Electors, too numerous and enlightened to have
any interest distinct from those of the people at large. Though few of our own number
possess the franchise, we feel assured, that our rights are safe under the protection of those
who enjoy it ; because they must share in common with us, all the benefits or evils resulting
from the wise or unwise use they make of their privilege. We cannot believe, that the
Electors of Scotland will betray or neglect their own interest, which is the same as ours-
We are confident, that men will now be returned to Parliament, who will make every effort
to enforce economy—lighten the burdens of the country—prevent useless wars—correct
abuses—extend the blessings of education, and, in a word, secure to the people all the ad-
vantages of cheap and good government. Again we offer our congratulations to our Fellow-
Citizens on this auspicious change, and on the career of prosperity, happiness, and true glory,
which it opens up to our country.
                                                       

Our Nation's Bulwark — A FREE  PRESS!                                     

Printed and Distributed in the Grand Reform Jubilee procession, by the Printers of Edinburgh, August 10, 1832. Wonder of Wonders, or the speech of a child born

near Edinburgh on Thursday the 15th of March

1770 as delivered ten minutes after it came

to the world.

IN all ages scarce such an instance is to be para-
relle'd as the present incident, which want
ever the public may think is asseartain'd for truth.

On Wednesday the 14th of March a farmer's
wife near Edinburgh being within a short time of
her delivery, being werry'd and went to bed, and
after an hours' sleep arose and said to her husband,'

My dear, I have had a sweet sleep and has but
few hours till I bring forth a Son, who will tell
what shall shortly happen.

Accordingly, on Thursday following, the wo-
man was happily delivered of a son who assoon
as was born spoke the following words.

This year will be a bloody year, there will be
war proclaim'd before the end of it, but the chris-
tian powers shall  obtain the victory; Highest pow-
ers shall be insulted ; Wilkes's party shall be sadly
dismay'd on account of their irregular conduct ;
white the SCOTS shall be prais'd for loyalty to
their King ; London, London, the seat of our
rightful soverign, the Thistle is sharp, but never
sting'd you; But the charming rose, in its full
bloom, so chears the hearts of the 45th party,
that till the Honourable and Antient Thistle ap-
pear, they mind nothing  but revelling; but says
the child, or the end of the year 1770 forty five
blue bonnets will drive 300 Freeholders to flight,
Wilkes, the unhappy instrument of our disturbance
shall with his party be brought to disgrace. and
be oblig'd to bow with reverence,to them whom
they ineffectually endeavour'd to adront.

So spoke the child, and immediately expired.A LETTER to the Author of the National Journal. 

S I R,                                 

IN all the Lists of the Prisoners taken in or after the Battle of Culloden, I observe,
That none of those taken were wounded.    Now, as in every Battle there are a
great many wounded, and left in the Field of Battle a Prey to the Conquerors, who
generally take as much Care of their wounded Enemies, as of their own wounded
Men, I wish you would inform me what became of the Rebels------that were left
wounded in that Field at that Battle.        I am, Your's,           TOM. CURIOUS.

SIR,                        To the Author of the National Journal.

AS your Correspondent Mr. Curious observes, there are People wounded in all
Battles. There were some at Dettingen, Fontenoy, Prestonpans and Falkirk ; and
we know that all the Care imaginable was taken, even by their Enemies, of those that
were wounded in each of these Battles. But in the Battle of Culloden, if the wounded
Rebels were all knocked o' the Head, it was no more than they deserved; for they,
and, I think, their Children, and the Children of all Jacobites, ought to be served so,
because, if they are suffered to live, many of them, in all Likelyhood, will grow up to
be Rebels------If we had in our Hands none of the Accomplices of these Traitors, their
might have been Policy in saving some of them for publick Executions, in order to
strike Terror, and prevent any Sort of Rebellion for the future; but we have enough
for that Purpose.

I also think, that all Jacobite Women, who are not past the Age of Breeding, should
be------, because there is no Doubt but many of them will breed Jacobites, as Chil-
dren generally suck in the Principles of their Mothers and Nurses, which can never be
eradicated but by great Posts and Pensions, and this, you know, is often a great Dis-
appointment as well as Loss to us honest People.

I am also of Opinion, that all the Corn in Scotland, designed for Seed, as well as all
the Cattle, ought to have been seized, and all Implements of Husbandry destroyed,
except what belongs to the few that are known to be well affected, which would in-
fallibly starve all those rebellious Wretches in a Year or two------This would effectually
extirpate them, and save us the Expence of transporting them to our Colonies, where
they may do great Mischief by infecting the People with their Principles.

As we have had very little Intelligence from Scotland since the Battle of Culloden, I
do not know if this Method has been folbwed; but I am clear in Opinion, that it
ought to have been followed ; and you may be assured, that many great, wife, and
powerful Men are of the same Opinion ; therefore I hope you will publish these my
Thoughts in your next Paper, which will oblige,

Sir, Yours,                        A true Modern WHIG .

P. S. If you publish this, I expect some good Place, in Reward for my Zeal, and
I intend to appoint you my Deputy.

A List of the Noblemen, Gentlemen, and others, attainted for their Accession to the Rebellion.
A Lexander Earl of  Kellie ; William Viscount of Strathallan ; Alexander Lord Pit-
A sligo ; David Wemyss Esq; commonly called Lord Elcho, Eldest Son and Heir ap-
parent of James Earl of  Wemyss;   James Drummond   Esq;   Eldest Son and Heir
apparent of William Viscount of Strathallan; Simon Fraser Esq; Eldest Son and Heir ap-
parent of Simon Lord Lovat ; George Murray Esq; commonly called Lord George Mur-
ray,   Brother to James Duke of Athol ;   Lewis Gordon Esq;   commonly called Lord
Lewis Gordon,  Brother to Cosmo George Duke of Gordon ;  James Drummond,
taking upon himself the Title of Duke of Perth ;   James Graham, late of  Druntroon,
taking on himself the Title of Viscount of Dundee ; John Nairn, taking upon himself the
Title or Stile of Lord Nairn; David Ogilvie,   taking upon himself the Title of Lord
Ogilvie;   John Drummond,   taking upon himself the Stile  or Titl of Lord John
Drummond,  Brother to James Drummond,   taking on himSelf the Title of Duke of
 Perth ; Robert Mercer Esq; otherways Nairn, of Aldie; Sir William Gordon of Park ;
John Murray of Broughton, Esq; John Gordon the Elder of Glenbucket ;   Donald
Cameron the Younger of  Lochiel;   Doctor Archibald Cameron,  Brother to Donald
Cameron the Younger of Lochiel;   Ludovick Cameron  of  Tor-Castle;   Alexander
Cameron of  Dungallon; Donald MacDonald of  Clanronald,  Junior, Son to Ronald
MacDonald of Clanronald ;   Donald MacDonald of  Lochgarie ;   Alexander Mac-
Donald of Keppoch ; Archibald MacDonald, Son of Colonel MacDonald of Barisdale;
Alexander MacDonald of Glencoe ;  Evan MacPherson of  Clunie ;   Lauchlan Mac-
Lauchlan of  Castle-Lauchlan ;  John MacKinnon of MacKinnon ; Charles Stewart
of Ardsheil; George Lockhart, Eldest Son and Heir apparent of George Lockhart of
Carnwath; Lawrence Oliphant the Elder of Gask; Lawrence Oliphant the Younger
of Gask ;   James Graham the Younger of Airth; John Stewart,  commonly called John
Roy Stewart;  Francis Farquharson of  Monalterye; Alexander MacGilivrae of Dru-
maglafli, Lauchlan MacIntosh Merchant at Inverness;   Malcolm Ross, Son of Alex-
ander Rose of  Pitcalny;   Alexander MacLeod,  Son to Master John MacLeod Ad-
vocate; John Hay, Portioner of Restalrig,  Writer to the Signet ; Andrew Lumsdale,
otherways Lumsdain, Son to William Lumsdale, other ways Lumsdain, Writer in Edin-
burgh ; and William Fidler, Clerk in the Auditor's Office-in the Exchequer of  Scotland.A   SERIOUS

POEM

UPON

WILLIAM WOOD, Bra-

sier, Tinker, Hard-Ware-Man,
Coiner, Founder, and Esquire.

WHEN Foes are o'ercome, we preserve them
from Slaughter,
To be Hewers of Wood, and Drawers of Water:
Now, altho" to draw Water is not very good,
Yet we all should rejoice to be Hewers of Wood..
I own it hath often provok'd me to mutter,
That a Rogue so obscure should make such a Clutter:
But antient philosophers wisely remark,
That old rotten Wood will shine in the Dark.
The Heathens, we read, had Gods made of Wood,
Who could do them no Harm,if they did them no Good.
But this Idol Wood may do us great Evil;
Their Gods were of Wood, but our Wood is the Devil.
To cut down fine Wood  is a very bad Thing,
And yet we all know much Gold it will bring :
Then if cutting down Wood  brings Money, good Store,
Our Money to keep, let us cut down one more.

Now hear an old Tale: There antiently stood
(I forget in what Church) an Image of Wood;
Concerning this Image there went a Prediction:
It would burn a whole Forest; nor was it a Fiction:
'I was cut into Faggots, and put to the Flame,
To burn an old Fiaer, one Forest by Name.
My Tale is a wife one, if well understood;
Find you but the Fiaer, and I'll find the Wood,

I hear among Scholars there is a great Doubt
From what Kind of Tree this Wood was hewn out:
Teague made a good Fun by a Brogue in his Speech,
And said, By my Shoul he's the Son of a Beech :
Some call him a Thorn, theCurse of a Nation,
As Thorns were design'd to be from the Creation.
Some think him cut out from the poisonous Tew,
Beneath whose ill Shade no Plant ever grew:
Some say he's a Birch, a Thought very odd,
For none but a Dunce would come under his Rod.
But I'll tell you the Secret, and pray do not blab,
He is an old Stump cut out of a Crab:
And England, has put this Crab to a hard Use,
To cudgel our Bones, and for Drink give us Verjuice ;

And therefore his Witnesses justly may boast,

That none are more properly Knights of the Post,

I ne'er could endure my Talent to smother;
I told you one Tale, I'll tell you another:
A Joyner, to fasten a Saint in a Nitch,
Bor'd a large Auger-Hole in the Image's Breech:
But finding the Statue to make no Complaint,
He would ne'er be convinc'd it was a true Saint.
When the true Wood arrives, as he soon will no doubt ;
(For that's but a sham * Wood they carry about)
What Stuff  he is made on, you quickly may find,
If you make the same Tryal, and bore him behind:
I'll hold you a Groat, when you wimble his Bum,
He'll bellow as loud as the De'il in a Drum.
From me, I declare, you shall have no Denial,
And there can be no Harm in making a Tryal:
And, when to the Joy of your Hearts he has roar'd,
You may shew him about for a new Groaning Board.

Hear one Story more, and then I will stop:
I dreamt Wood, was told he  should die by a Drop:
So methought, he resolved no Liquor to taste,
For Fear the first Drop might as well be his Last:
But Dreams are like Oracles, 'tis hard to explain 'em,
For it prov'd that he died of a Drop at † Kilmainham:
I wak'd with Delight, and not without Hope,
Very soon to see Wood drop down from a Rope:
How he, and how we at each other should grin!
'Tis Kindness to hold a Friend up by the Chin.
But soft, says the Herauld, I cannot agree :
For Mettal on Mettal is false Heraldry :
Why that may be true, yet Wood upon Wood,
I'll mantain with my Life, is Heraldry good.

* The Effigies of  Mr. Wood has been frequently carried
about in Procession, and burnt.
† Their Place of Execution.

Reprinted from the Dublin Copy.
The last Speech, Confession, and crying Supplication of Sir
TURNABOUT TOPBOOTS, and the rest of that Whig Gang
who were exhibited this day, on a Scaffold which had
been erected for them in the Grassmarket of Edinburgh.

PRECISELY at 2 o'clock they ascended the Scaffold, attended by the Magistrates, and a motely group of friends, curious to witness the
figure they would make at this ancient place of execution. The crowd was far from being so great as might have been expected, con-
sidering the pains which had been taken to collect them, and the hour of dinner, and consequently of leisure to the working classes which
had been selected. After all the preliminaries had been adjusted, Sir Turnabout spoke, as nearly as we could gather, to the following
effect.

Good people ! I appear in this miserable place, where so many before me have confessed their guilt, and suffered for their crimes,
to implore your compassion and intercession with his Majesty the King in behalf of those whom I and others of the same way of think-
ing contrived to place about his royal person, but whom he in his wrath hath dismissed from his service. It is true, and with grief I ac-
knowledge, that they have not in all things conducted themselves as they ought, or given satisfaction either to their royal master or those
who recommended them to his notice. They have quarrelled with one another, and driven from among them, I must admit, the very
best of their number—yea, with shame and sorrow I confess it, they have even expelled the man who was set over them to keep them
in order. The good King they have plagued with their bickerings, and tormented with their ostentatious preparations and boasting
professions, which have ended in nothing. His subjects they have not relieved as they promised ; neither have they rendered them
prosperous, contented, and happy, as he so anxiously desired. The ignoble and the ignorant they have dragged from obscurity, and
placed in stations for which they were by no means qualified, while the noble, the virtuous, and the wise, they have laboured to depress
and overawe by their vulgar abuse, and threats of popular vengeance. They have magnified their own wisdom, and sought to govern
the country without the fear of God. His church they have threatened to destroy, and declared that all religions are alike acceptable
to him, and that, therefore, it is no matter what religion we have in these lands, or whether we have any at all. But for all this they
have been useful servants, if not to the king and country, at least to some of those who helped to bawl them into office. Some they
have made Judges—others they have made Sheriffs—and many they have made Commissioners of humbug, with nice and comfortable
salaries ; but far the greater number of their expectants they have still left unprovided for. I myself have as yet got nothing but an
 empty title, whereas I expected, long before this, to have laid my hands upon something substantial. My friend Sir Cripple Dick,
here, is in the same situation ; he has received nothing at all, whereas he should have been by this time chief of that Commission of
Inquiry which was to have been appointed to superintend the suds of the washerwomen of Edinburgh, with a salary of L.500 a-year.
Nor has my friend Bailie Bullhead been more fortunato ; he expected, ere this time, to have been at the head of that great piece of
Reform, and most necessary Commission which was to have been appointed to regulate the brawling of our Fishwives, with a salary of
nearly a thousand. And my worthy coadjutor, Councillor Jacobson has been equally disappointed—he was to have been chief of a
Commission to enquire into the capabilities of Chimney Sweeps, and bring them forward to that place in the Legislature of the country
to which they are so eminently entitled, with a salary, at least equal to the Bailies. In short, most of us are yet in the same destitute
and disappointed situation.

We are, therefore, truly, in a most pitiable case, and have no hopes of succeeding in our modest expectations, but by the help of your
stentorian lungs. His Majesty has called to his counsels the Duke of Wellington, and from direful experience, we know that he will
have no sympathy with our selfishness, and lend no ear to our most greedy requests—he will force every man to do his duty and be con-
tent with such salaries as can be afforded—neither will he give salaries to those who do nothing at all—he will not plunder the church
and divide the spoil with his supporters—neither will he create new Offices for our behoof, nor appoint Commissioners with large salaries
to enquire into matters which he never meant to redress. In short, he will force every one of us to respect the law, and make no provi-
sion for that Patriot band of needy Whigs, who have so long and so loudly tried, by your help, to force themselves into places of power
and profit.

I implore you, therefore, to have pity upon us, and raise your voice yet this once, till we try if we can get the old servants sent back
again to his Majesty, and kept in office till such time as they have satisfied our longing desires, and provided for us handsomely ; and
then you shall have my permission to hiss and blow them to the four winds of heaven if yon please.

Many other supplications were addressed to the assembled multitude ; but the burthen of all was the same. 
Edinburgh, 21st Nov. 1834.