ANCIENT PROPHECY.

A most Wonderful and true Prophecy, which was found in an iron
box in a Subterraneous Cavern, near the memorable field of Cul-
loden, and was written three hundred years ago, and contains
many Discoveries of what is to take place in various kingdoms
of the World betwixt the years 1822 and 1826.

This cavern was situated in the lands of a very rich Gentleman of the name of Gordon,
in the neighbourhood of the famous field of Culloden, who took a notion to embellish the
interior of the cavern, and for that means employed some masons to raise a pillar for the
support of a hanging rock that projected out of the roof, and while at this work, one of
the masons took notice of a large square stone that seemed to be transfixed between two
rocks; this curiosity led him to try to get the stone out, which he soon accomplished, but
was much surprised to find underneath it a small iron box, about eighteen inches long.—
The man thinking that the box contained treasure, was very much agitated, but on break-
ing it open, found that it contained nothing but a large roll of parchment, all in writing;
but as none of  the men were able to read the writing, it was conveyed to Mr Gordon, who
is an excellent scholar, and with the assistance of two or three Clergymen to whom he ex-
hibited the roll, and who were conversant in the ancient languages, it was found to be a
prophecy, and wrote about three hundred years ago. It explains every thing just as they
came to pass in the sister kingdom for the last two hundred years ; it gives a true defini-
tion of the rise and fall of Buonaparte, from his first entering the French Convention, till
his total overthrow at Waterloo, and from that to his exile. It says, that when two crowned
heads from the east, and one from the north shall join, there shall be a total overthrow of
the Turkish Empire. It also speaks of the Queen of England's trial and acquittal, and
what is wonderful, it tells the exact number of days it would last, 45 days, which was the
exact number it did last. It also says, that between the years 1821 and 1826, that there
will be great blood and slaughter in the sister kingdom ; but when Ireland shall see three
eagles coming together in a line from the south, they may expect their troubles to be at
an end, and the reign of peace and prosperity shall again revisit that long divided king-
dom. It also speaks of the National Debt of Britain, which it says will increase to such a
degree, from the people not being able to pay the taxes, owing to the depressed state of
trade, and the agricultural interest being completely ruined, that it will be unable to fulfil
its engagements, and a national bankruptcy will take place in the year 1823; after that
period a new system of finance will be introduced, and Britain will again recover from her
embarrassments,  and shine forth among the nations of Europe with increased lustre.

There is a good deal of the writing defaced; but it is. supposed by its being in the Celtic
language, that it was wrote by some great prophet, when the Celtics inhabited the king-
dom of Scotland.

There being a great part of the prophecy defaced, in order to fill up the paper, we sub-
join the following curious prayer, which was uttered by an old carter, who was permitted
to lodge in a barn belonging to Mr Gregg (father of the Rev. Mr Gregg, late of St Alban's)
who overheard him the next morning to pray in the following manner :—" Thank God,
I have slept soundly to night, and so this morning am pure and well. Thank God, my ass.
is well, and has a good lock of hay, her crust of bread, and drank half a pail of water.—
God bless us both to-day, and give me strength to walk afoot, that I may'nt be forced to
get up and ride the poor beast, for she has luggage enough already. God Almighty send
that folks may want my wares, and that somebody may take a liking to my ballads; and
them as can afford it may give me some victuals and drink that I may not give my ballads
to servants for it, when their masters and mistresses dont know on't. . God Almighty lead
us through green lanes, where my poor ass may light on good cropping without running
into other folks's grass or corn ; and that poor thing she mayn't tumble down and hurt
herself, and break my wares. And God Almighty incline somebody to give me a night's
lodging; and that I may have a dry barn, and some barley straw too (an't please God), for
I grown old now, and a hard bed is worse than it used to be. But I dont  distrust God,
Almighty's care, for he never let me want in my life, and so his great  and holy name be'
praised now and evermore. Amen."                 

This eccentric character dealt in earthen ware, and also sold ballads and histories among
the country people.                                                    '                 

Printed for J. Johnstone.



Discovery,

OF                                      

Ancient Relics.

A Full, True, and Interersting Account' of
that Remarkable and Important Discovery
made yesterday in taking down the old
houses in the Castle-hill, when there was
found a box contanig several Ancient Coins,
a Massy Gold Ring, an old fashioned Dirk.
and a Wonderful Prophecy made in the
yerar 1550, respecting great events which
are to happen this present year. 

A Report has  just reached  us of a very 
Remarkable and Interesting Discovery bar-
ing been made yesterday by the labourer.
employed in taking down an old house in
the Castle-hill', of a wooden Box containing
Several very ancient relics and a Wonderful
Propheey made in the year 1550, relative to
Strange events which are to take  place this 
present  year.

From the confused statement  so hastily 
made to us  we  have  endeavoured to collect
the following interesting particulars : —•

Our  readers are already  aware that  most.
of the tenements in tho Castle-hill are of 
very ancient  constructure, more especially 
those situated  in the closes  or alleys leading
from the main street down to the Grass
market  and  were in former  days inhabited
by the wealthy and the powerful of the -
land. Though we could mention the names
of many  of the noble occupiers  of these once
magnificent but now decidedly humble dwel-
lings,we deem it here would be superfluous.
and referring the curious to Chalmers'  Tra-
ditions, we shall at once proceed to the sub-
ject of the discovery.

As some of the workmen employed in tak-
ing down the houses  in the Castle-hill which
stand in the line of the New Improvements
were busily engaged  in loosening part of a
joint wall of mutual gable. and while one of
them was in the act of displecing a stone of
pretty large dimensions, his attention was
arrested at the sight  of a wooden box con-
cealed in a cavity beneath On examination
it was found to be made of oak, in a state of
excellent preservation, the sides were clasp-
ed with iron, and the lid carefully nailed and
sealed down. It appeared that it must have
been secreted in the wall at some period  sub-
sequent to its erection, for a piece of stone
was found neatly fitted in on the inside of
what had lately been a small chamber.

On opening the box, there was found de-
posited within several very ancient coins, a
massy gold ring, seemingly of great antiqui-
ty, a curious sort of dirk, richly Studded
with silver, and a piece of parchment tightly
rolled together, bearing the following curious
inscription, wrote in old fashioned but very
intelligible characters:—

" 1550, Januarie 12. [A Bytter Frost.]
In ye year 1881, There shalle be myghtie
trobelles. Ye countrye shalle be on ye brink-
of destroctione, but they re shalle aryse meane 
aboundinge in vertew and talente, we shalle
restor it to helthe and soundenesse, and cause
ye pepel to lyve in prosperytye. Ye power
turned agynst ye pepel shalle be yeelded to'
its ryghtful owners."

It is to be hoped that these valuable anti-
quities will be carefully preserved and sub-
mitted to the inspection of the curious.

Edinburgh, Printed for the Booksellers,.
Price One Penny.EXTRAORDINARY
PREDICTIONS!!

A Full and Particular Account of the most astonishing PROPHECIES and PRE-
DICTIONS, concerning the Revolutions, War, Reform, &c that is said will
happen in the various Nations of Europe, &c, in the different Months of
this eventful year, 1831. By a celebrated Jewish Prophet, from Poland.

JANUARY....When I consider the aspects that usher in the new-born year, I
must say, the times appears fraught with ominous denouncements! Important
changes are foretold to mighty states — remarkable events occur to Russia, Den-
mark, Sweden, and an Oriental Kingdom. London is the scene of extraordinary
political and mercurial schemes.

FEBRUARY.....This is an unfortunate month. Illness or a singular trouble, is
approaching to an illustrious person, perhaps mighty personage. His horoscope
has certainly a malicious aspect therein, and which will scarcely pass without a
noted effect either in this or the ensuing month. One in military life, or an emi-
nent man dies or is disgraced ; a clergyman suffers ; there is a great calamity to
some part of the religious world ; a conspiracy ; many knavish schemes, thefts,
robberies, &c. ; and something extraordinary excites the popular attentions.

MARCH...The nativity of a great personage is still afflicted. We may expect a
military death or funeral ; the decease of a very clever character ; a great fire; a
notorious robbery, (perhaps murder); many heavy failures in trade ; a shipwreck;
many shameful contentions ; a remarkable or pompous nuptial; and such evil
news both at home and from abroad, where I think a great battle is likely to be
fought. Moreover, it will be a. month of mortality ; a great gambler dies, or is
ruined, and many pompous preparations are in progress. A shameful project or
nefarious scheme is discovered or exploded ; a noted person rediculed ; and the
month is evil for the rising generation, while in literature and science there will
be singular failures.

APRIL....This is a month of misfortunes to London, and, perhaps, also to Eng-
land ; but something of high consequence, and I think also fortunate to the com-
munity, will happen very shortly. A dignified personage is, however, still doom-
ed to illness or trouble; and there will be conflagrations, as also extraordinary
news, great part of a mischievous nature.

MAY....I fear this will be a month of disasters. Evil reports, lies, and rumours
...several fires and sudden deaths, or violent catastrophes. One of an illustrious
family is troubled or afflicted ; something remarkable may happen to a Princess,
or a noble Lady ; a great man dies, and there is evil news from foreign parts,
It is also a month of singular mortality, especially to persons signified by Sol,
viz. these in authority, dignified and wealthy.

JUNE....The Continental States, perhaps Holland or the Netherlands are indi-
cated by no favourable omens. A great poet or painter dies. In an illustrious
family there are still directions of trouble, or something still worse. The signifi-
cator of America. In the monthly horoscope, forebodes a preparation for war, or
that country changes in its policy, if not legislators. Death also claims his share
in the councils of a certain nation, and it will be a wonder if he do not come off
victorious. Scientific men or statesmen, however, are promoted. The funeral of
an eminent clergyman is at hand.

JULY.....We may expect a great statesman or scientific character to meet death
or disgrace. The military in general are under evil aspects ; faiiures in the com-
mercial world ; fires and crimes of no usual order, and more especially abroad.
It is an evil month for poets, painters, musicians, &c. A noted gambler or specu-
lator suffers; and America, France, and several foreign parts, are amenable to
mischievous influences, maladies, &c.

AUGUST....The admonitions of the starry heavens, however, they may be light-
ly esteemed or disregarded by mankind, ate, during this thrice eventful epoch,
loud in their ominus and fearful forewarnings. Let us fervently hope the warn-
ing thus given may not be in vain !  Mere are signs of mortality to the noble—
ilness to a great or princely personage — death of a clergyman or learned person
—detection of an impostor, and many other primary catastrophes, many of which,
scorning the limits of time, will be continued beyond the month.

SEPTEMBER....This is assuredly a busy eventful month, not in popular annals.
A philanthropic scheme is began or premeditated.    The clergy seems fortunate ;
and abroad some extraordinary matters are consummating. A great man becomes
popular during this configuration.    I would that the good were lasting ! but alas,
cannot so promise it.

OCTOBER....This will indeed be a noted month, for wedlock and nuptial cere-
monies. One or more of these too, bedecked with pageantry of state, or splend-
our of wealth; many widows, and middle aged of the fair sex, will have good
cause to think of October 1831. The other events of the month are no less ex-
traordinary.

NOVEMBER....The Sun quartiles Herschel. Woe to the great one. The Sun
squares Jupiter ! Woe to one of the church. These are the oracles of the month-
ly horoscope. Death is preparing his phantom dart—soon will he strike. Ye
who oppress the poor and needy—who are even as the outcasts of the earth in
the eyes of Heaven—take warning. Lo ! the time is at hand.

DECEMBER....December concludes the forewarnings of the year, and in this
gloomy month we find Mercury gives us a passing touch of calamities, fires, &c.
well had it have been had the year ended with happier influences ; and well
will it still be, if mankind take timely warning from the past......(R. M. Printer.)

Martin's Wonderful Prophecies!

RELATING TO       

England, Scotland, and  Ireland.

With an Account of the Wonderful Changes that must shortly
take place in the Government, and in the State and Condition
of the People.

HAVING devoted many years to the  study of human events, and been an atten-
tive observer of what has been passing in Europe, particularly in Great
Britain, and its dependencies, I am thereby enabled to calculate, from what has
happened, and the perfect configuration of political affairs, What shall eventually
happen, and must shortly come to pass, as materially affecting the interest and hap-
piness  of the people under the British Government. In the course of my journeyings
through the wildernesss of this world, what strange scenes have I witnessed, and what
reverses of fortune have I suffered ! I have enjoyed prosperty, and suffered adver-
sity, more, perhaps, than has fallen to the lot of many persons. From these how-
ever, I have learned wisdom—been  in ored in the ways  of Providence to mankind,
and instructed by the vices and follies of erring mortals.

The revolution of seasons—the rise and fall of  Kings— the prosperity and adversity
of empires—the fends of party,  and ravages of war  have been carried on with little
intromission, in almost every country in the habitual globe.  All  these I have wit- 
nessed, and not more than  outlived them.

I paused here and went to bed; in the midst of a comtemplation, I was weighting  
in my mind what was  the cause of all these wars, and the numerous evils which em-
bittered the life of man. I had recourse to the Bible,, where I found all those things
as plainly as if they had taken place at the time the writers were penning them-- even 
the last of power, the pride and ambition of  Governers. I  closed  my eyes  for  sleep-
when lo ! a vision appeared, and thus addressed me :-"Far greater things than
those you have been contemplating will shortly take place. ENGLAND, after
having lavished her millions upon surrounding nation, will be forced herslf to seek
relief—no power will he found hospitable  enough to satisfy her request—her manu-
facures shall fail, there being no demand for them, and the seat of commerce shall
be removed beyond the Atlantic sea—divisions  will take place in the council of the
nation as to the best mode of saving it from bankruptcy—a bill will be passed to
abolish all credit-many merchants and tradesmen will be ruined. the poor labourinng
people will suffer severely, and   many will die of hunger and starvation ; after which,
a new system of things will take place, England will again shine forth in all the
splendour of noon-day.

IRELAND, long the seat of disaffection, shall be relieved from its present dis-
tress, and enabled, by cultivation of its soil, to maintain its own people, without
being obliged to allow her sons to emigrate to other countries, to take employment
from them who have not enough for themselves nor eat the bread of others, while
their own country, so amply fitted to produeced her long sought for claims, will be
restored, and her sons enjoy all the privileges which Protestants, at present ;receive:
she will not be allowed to emerge back to her former superstition, but be  brought
under the glorious dispensation which is so near at hand, when all sects will be
united in one great body.

SCOTLAND, the cradle of industry, whose mechanics can challenge Europe for
their equal, whose scholars can match the far-famed Greeks, whose orators can com-
pete with the cloquent sons of Rome ! thou must also undergo a change; darkness
must hover around thee for a season;  thy sons shall be driven from their employ-
ment, and be obliged to work for a scanty pittance at labour which they are unac-
customed to; thy women and children in humble attire, their food but scanty, they
shall cry, there will be no pity !  All thus shall come upon thee for thy abuse of
former mercies. For thy numerous transgression  shalt thou meet this punishment,
But thou shalt come out these afflictions, and be reinstated in thy former greatness.

From the various configurations of the planets, much variety of events may be
expected. Some foreign powers, that were thought, to be great friends to one ano-
ther, may be expected suddenly to break the league; and they will try, by craft and
subtlety, to exasperate those who are now at peace, and make them take a part-
Perhaps, however, the death of one or more great potentates, or their ministers,
may prevent all this mischief. More preferments may shortly be expected to be
conferred on deserving men, both of the legal and ecclesiastical function; and the
way is now open for men of all persuasions to via in promoting the interests of their
country.

Let us hope peace, happiness and prosperity, will attend the British nation; for
when was it ever known that war ultimately produced any good to Old England, or
to the countries she has professed to assist?  What has been achieved by the late
expensive contest? Why, at home an enormous debt! and on the continent of
Europe, the restoration of the ancient governments, with all their absurdities, ty-
ranny and blasting influence...standing monuments of disgrace to the age we live
in; and powerful barriers to the principal improvements that can give dignity to
man, or raise him to that eminence in the sphere of his existence which he was
designed to occupy by his Great Creator.
	When contending princes fight,
	For private pique, or public right,
	Armies are rais'd, the fleets are mann'd,	
	They combat both by sea and land ;              
	When, after many bottles past,
	Both, tir'd with blows, make peace at last;
	What is it, after all, the people get ?
	Why, taxes, widows, wooden legs and debt!
The vision immediately fled—a cold sweat covered my body—this may appear
wonderful as prophets have ceased, and may be considered by the learned as a fit
of delirium or a dream: the reader may rely that none of these circutmstances de-
oeited me, as these events will take place in your own day, and be confirmed by
your own experience,                                                                  (Price One Penny)Wonderful Prophecies of JOHN LECKIE,                                                      

Who died on the 6th August, 1820, at Cramond, at the age of 105,
with an account of the Wonderful Changes that would take place
in the year 1822, in England, Ireland, and especially in Scotland.


At the conclusion of a long life, and which to the young reader, may appear a great
blessing, as it falls to the lot of few ; yet, to me, whose sand-glass is nearly run, it appears
but as a tale, and as a vision of the night. In the course of my journeyings through the
wilderness of time what scenes have I witnessed, what prosperity have I enjoyed, what re-
verses of fortune have I suffered; I have had friends who enjoyed with me all the blessings
which a kind Providence could bestow; acquaintances with whom I spent the giddy hour,
and whose conversation gilded the morning of life; youths, who were my school-fellows,
and whose happiness was my own, and who accompanied me in almost all the walks of life.
But more mature thoughts hang heavy on my heart, and I begin to ask where are they now ?
No one answers, and I am obliged to solve the question myself. Those with whom I lived;
those who reared me up from infancy to manhood; those who sported with me in all the
playfulness of youth, are gone! have shut their eyes for ever on all beneath the sun, and I
am left alone, a burden to myself, a burden to strangers, and a burden to society, with-
out one earthly ray of hope to shine upon the evening of my days. But there is one hope,
of which no one can deprive me, (even in this second state of childhood), the hope of a
more blessed and lasting state, which can support beggars, as well as kings, at the solemn hour
of death.

The revolution of seasons ; the rise and fall of Kings ; the prosperity and adversity of
Empires ; the feuds of party, and the ravages of war, which have been carried on, with
little intermission, in almost every country in the habitable globe, from my earliest years,
all these have I witnessed, and have no more than outlived them.

I here paused and went to bed, and in the midst of my Contemplation, I was weighing
in my own mind, who was the cause of all these wars, of all these party broils, and the nu-
merous evils which embitter the lot of man, when I had recourse to my Bible, where I
found all these things as plainly told, as if they had taken place at the time when the writ-
ers were penning them. I now closed my eyes for sleep, when lo ! a vision appeared and
addressed me thus:—Far greater things than  those you have been Contemplating will take
place in the year 1822; England, after having lavished her millions upon surrounding na-
tions, will herself be forced, to seek relief, and no power will be found hospitable enough
to satisfy her request; her manufactures shall fail, there being no demand for them, and
the seat of commerce shall be removed beyond the Atlantic sea; divisions will take place
in the Councils of the Nation, us to the best mode of saving it from bankruptcy  , and a bill
will be passed to abolish all credit; after this, a new system of things will take place, and
England will again shine forth in all the splendour of noon-day.

Ireland, long the seat of disaffection, shall be relived  from its present distresses, and be
enabled, by the cultivation of its soil, to maintain its own  peasantry, without being obliged
to allow her sons to emigrate to other countries to take the employment  from those who
have not enough for themselves, and eat the bread of others which their own country is so
amply fitted to produce; her long-sought-for claims will be restored, and her sons enjoy
all the privileges which Protestants at present receive; she will not be allowed to merge
back into her former superstitions, but will be brought under the glorious Dispensation
which is so near at hand, when all sects shall be united in one great body.

Scotland, the cradle of industry, whose mechanics can-challenge Europe for their equal ;
whose scholars can match the once-fam'd Greeks, and whose orators can compete with the
once eloquent sons of Rome, thou must also undergo a change ; darkness must hover round
thee for a season ; thy sons shall be driven from their present employ, and be obliged to
work for a scanty pittance, at labour which they are unaccustomed to ; thy women and
children shall be clothed in humble attire, and their food shall be but small; they shall cry,
but there shall be none to pity, and society shall be, in some degree, dissolved. All this
shall come upon thee for thy abuse of former mercies ; for thy numerous transgressions
shalt thou meet this punishment. But this shall continue only for a short time, and thou
shalt come out of these afflictions, and be again reinstated in thy former greatness, and
be a pattern to the surrounding nations. The vision immediately fled, and a cold sweat
covered my emaciated body while it was speaking. This may appear wonderful, now that
prophets have ceased, and may be considered by the learned as a fit of delirium or a dream,
or some ventriloquist displaying his magic powers; but the reader may rely that neither of
these circumstances deceived me, as these events will take place in your own day, and in
your own experience.                                                       Glasgow, printed by W. Carse.MERLIN  Reviv'd : 

O R

An Old PROPHECY

Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle

in York-shire.

     M D C L . — 1650.

WHen  MDC  shall joyn with L,
In England things will not go well ;
A Body shall without an Head,   
Make all the Neighbouring Nations dread :
The Lyon's Whelps shall banish'd be,
And seek their prey beyond the Sea.

 M D C L X. — 1660 .
But when that X  the rest shall joyn,
Restor'd shall be the Royal Line :
Through England joy shall flow amain,
To see the Lyon's Whelps again.

    M D C L X V I. —1666.
M  joyn'd to th' number of the Beast,
Let London then beware the priest  ;
Ignatius Brood disguis'd shall burn
The City, and it to Ashes turn :
Then some shall weep, others admire,
To see the Vengeance of the Fire.
    M D C LXXX.—-1680.
Ere time two X's more doth add,
Things Will in England grow but bad :
Those, who before were well content,
Shall moan their folly, and repent.
A Man of Cole shall Plots design,
And with the jesuits Brood shall joyn ;
But the effect they ne're shall see,
But die upon a Triple-Tree. 
When Janock and the Truckle-Couch,   
With Horse-pride shall the same things vouch,
And  when the Valley of the Breast,
Shall help to witness with the rest,
Then Hellish Plots shall, be made known,
And th' Arts of wicked Rome be shewn.
The Son of Jane shall first relate,
The Lyes that dying men create :
An Officer to tell his Tale,
In Wooden House shall hither sail :
Through Loop-hole shall a Lawyer look,
And Vulcan's Son shall write a Book:
A Willow to a Field shall change,
And shew things Dangerous and strange.
Then shall a Price be strongly prest,
To buy the Valley of the Breast :
Arid Mother-Midnight shall declare,
She for Religion Will make War.

 Janock shall go nigh to be slain,
And Knockt down in a dirty Lane :
But Janock shall escape at last,
And see the dangers he had past :
Superstition shall have a fall,
Its Trinkets hung out on a Wall :
The Whare of Babylon's Attire,
Shall by the Wall be burnt ith' Fire.
The Lyon to the North shall go,
And the Lov'd-Knight himself shall shew :
Great Joy his sight to some shall bring,
Yet some shall mourn, whilst others sing :
In every place great stir shall be,
Members and Head shall disagree.
The Sun Eclipsed from our sight,
Shall give a weak and sickly light ;
The Moon  shall be bestain'd with Blood,
And Venus by the sun be trod.
Then from these three there shall arise
A flaming Meteor in the Skies,
Which shall to England threat much woe,
And down the Miter overthrow.

MDCL XXXII-—1682.
Ere to the Letters writ before,
Time shall have added two I's more,
Two I's shall rise and shall contend, 
And for the Crown their Force shall send,
A Senate then shall end the strife,
And Atropos shall cut a Life :
Rome then from England  fast shall fly,
And Laws shall long imprison'd try :
Under the Ax great men shall bleed,
And others shall at last be freed.
The Church and Crown shall flourish then,
And happy Peace restor'd agen.
The Flower-de-Ince shall loft a Stem,
And the Old Eagle loud shall scream :
The Half- Moon shall Victorious grow,
And trample on a Northern Foe :
The Orange shall begin to bear,
Then Hogen to your selves beware :
A Triple-League shall then be made,
And Rome of England be afraid :
And he who lives till Eighty Three,
All this to come to pass shall see.

F I N I S.