A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JOHN
MILLER and WILLIAM STORRIER, accused of an Assault and
Rape on a Girl, 14 years of age, who are to be publicly Whipped
through the Town of Dundee on the 4th of October next, and there-
after Banished beyond Seas for 14 years; as also, of WILLIAM
ROBERTSON, for committing a Similar Crime, and who is to be
Executed at Cupar in Fife, on Thursday the 31st of October next.

AT Perth, on Friday the 13th Septem-
ber, 1822, JOHN MILLER and WILL-
STORIER, accused of the crime of an as- 
sault, with intent to a commit rape on
a girl about 14 years of age, in the neigh-
bourhood of Glammis, on the 5th of May
last, were placed at the bar. The Court
was then ordered to be cleared—but we
understand that they pleaded Not Guilty.

A considerable number of witnesses
were examined for the prosecution, as were
likewise a number in exculpation on be-
half of the pannels.

Mr Hope addressed the Court for the
prosecution, and Mr Thomson for Miller
and Storrier, after which the evidence was
summed up by one of their Lordships—
	and the Jury, after having been enclosed
for nearly an hour, returned a verdict, by
a plurality of voices finding the pannels
guilty of the assault, with an intent to com-
mit rape.                                  

On Saturday the 14th, he Court met at
nine o'clock, Miller and Storrier were then
put to the ban Mr Hope moved the judg-
ment of the Court; and Mr Thomson ad-
dressed the Court at considerable length,
in mitigation of punishment.

Lord Hermand, in a speech of great
energy, pointed ous-the aggravated nature
of the crime of which the panels had been
convicted, and proposed that they should,
in addition to the punishment of trans- 
portation, be whipped through the town
of Dundee.                                              

Lord Succoth, in the course of his ob-
servations on the crime of which the pan-
els had been convicted, remarked, that it
was clear that they had been both as-
sisting in the perpetration of this most a-
trocious crime ; that it was indeed a very
rare occurrence for two men to be concern-
ed in such an offence, the one holding the
feet of their victim, while the other was
attempting to commit the brutal act.
There had been cases in which greater
marks of violence were exhibited, but that
would not, in any way, militate in their
favour. It was not necessary for the pan-
nels to knock down the girl, because, from
her tender years, she was unable to resist
the strength of two men. It was also
proved, that they had gone deliberately a-
bout their criminal purpose, by dragging
the girl into a wood; this shows, that
they were determined to effect their ob-
ject—the girl crying out and making all
the resistance she could. It appeared in

evidence, that the girl, who was only 14
years of age, continued in a state of fever
for some days after. Under all the cir-
cumstances of the case, therefore, he a-
greed with the suggestions of Lord Her-
mand, as to the expediency of the panels
being publicly whipped, in addition to the
punishment of transportation.  His Lord-
ship concluded, by addressing the panels
in a most impressive manner, as to what
ought to be the line of conduct pursued
by them after they should leave this coun-
try.

The sentence of the Court was read,
ordaining  Miller and Storrier to be public-   
ly whipped through the town of Dundee,
on the 4th day of October next, and there-
after, to be banished beyond seas for 14

years.

William Robertson, accused of a simi-
lar act, was then put to the bar, and the
Court cleared, as had been done in the for-
mer trial, during the examination of the
evidence, &c.; and the Court continued
shut from 11 to past 7 o'clock at night.
In the course of that time a great number
of witnesses, both for the prosecution and
in exculpation, were examined. The ge-
neral outline of the evidence was under-
stood to be, that the female, who lived near
Cupar Fife, had been violently assaulted,
severely wounded, and actually ravished
by the pannel.

After some pleading by the counsel for
the Crown and the prisoner, and the case
being summed up by one of their Lord-
ships, the jury retired, and were enclosed
for about an hour, when they returned
with a verdict, finding, by a plurality of
voices, the pannel guilty of rape; but un-
animously and strongly recommended him
to mercy.

Mr Hope having moved the judgment
of the Court.                              

Lord Succoth addressed Robertson in a
short but most energetic speech, stating
that the Court had no alternative but to
pass the last sentence of the law.

Lord Hermand also made a few obser-
vations on the nature and enormity of the
offence, and concluded by sentencing Ro-
bertson to be hanged at Cupar Fife, on the
31st October next.

The prisoner heard the awful doom pro-
nounced with great composure and firmness.
He was a good-looking middle aged man.
and has, as we were informed, a family.   
" PRICE ONE PENNY."   TRIAL.

              HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY, July 15,1830,

A full, true, and particular Account of the Trial of Mr David Bartie,
writer, before the High Court of Justiciary,yesterday, for violating
the person of Margaret Gray, a girl fourteen years of age, servant
in the house in which the pannel lodged, in East Cumberland-
Street, Edinburgh, and which Trial occupied the Court eleven
hoars.

The Indictment, after commencing in the usual form, set   forthy
That albeit, by the laws of this and every other well governed   realm'
Rape is a crime of an heinous nature and severely punishable:   yet
true it was and of verity, that David Bertie, the prisoner at the   bar,
was guilty of the same, he having, on the 10th day of May last, in    a
house situated in. East Cumberland-street, then in the occupation    of
Mrs Jane Skirving, and in a room in the said house, which he (the pri-
soner) occupied as a lodger, wickedly solicited Margaret Gray, servant
to the siad  Jane Skirving, and on her rejecting his solicitations, did
attack her with force and violence in the said room;—and that on the
said Margaret Gray getting away from him, he did some time after-
wards in the passage of the said house, again attack the said Margaret
Gray, and did seize her by the arm, and forcibly drag her back  into
his room, wherein, in spite of all the resistance in her power, he con-
summated the crime, with great force and violence—[and the particu-
lars of which, as stated in the indictment, are unfit for publication.]

The indictment then went on to state, that the pannel, having been
apprehended, and taken before the Sheriff substitute, had emitted be-
fore him, on the 11th and 13th of May two several declarations which,
being to be used in evidence against him, had been lodged in the usu-
al place for his inspection,  as also a medical certificate signed by Dr
Thatcher, and another medical certificate, signed by Dr  Black, surgeon
to the Police Establishment,  and by Mr A. L. Black, and Mr Sidey,
surgeons,—and also one other article, which, though it was named in
the indictment and produced on the trial,  it would be improper to
mention here.

The trial commenced about twelve o'clock ; and the prisoner hav-
ing been placed at the bar, pleaded Not Guilty.

The Examination of Margaret Gray (who is not more than fourteen
years of age, and who is a daughter of very decent parents at Joppa,
where her father is a mason) occupied two hours and a quarter.    She
underwent  a long and very minute cross-examination;   but she was
not materially shaken in her principal evidence.

There were twenty witnesses in all, for the Crown, amongst whom
were. Margaret Gray, Mrs Skirving, Catherine Johnston, Ann Gray,
the Medical  Gentlemen mentioned  in   the indictment,  Lieutenant
Harvey, and Serjeant Charles Stewart, jun, of the Police Establish-
ment.-

The alleged facts of the case were, that on the day libelled, the pri-
soner and Margaret Gray being alone, in Mrs Skirving's house, in the
absence of Mrs S., and the rest of the family, the prisoner offered the
poor girl first one pound note, then two pound notes, and then three
pound notes, if she would comply with his wishes. These tempta-
tions having been rejected by the girl, the pannel, as alleged, next
proceeded to use violence in the way libelled in the indictment. After
the commission of the crime, he had left the house ; but he returned
to it agian,and was in bed when he was apprehended, about eleven
o'clock on the same night. He has all along positively denied the
crime. 

The prisoner is a-young man, about twenty eight years of age, dark
complexion, roman nose, short stature, and of gentlemanly dress and
appearance. He was Clerk to a Writer.

The exculpatory evidence occupied a very considerable portion   of
time, and there were several very respectable witnesses to the cha-
racter of the pannel.

The Lord justice Clerk having made a long and able summing up
or the evidence, the Jury retired to consider of their verdict.

During the absence of the jury, the pannel remained in a state of
the utmost agitation and anxiety. He repeatedly gazed round, him
with an indescribably haggard expression on his countenance, over
which hung a cloud of the blackest gloom and most dismal melancholy.
At times he laid his head down on his hands and arms ; and for a few
moments seemed asleep; and then he would raise his head again with
the same unaltered expression. It struck almost every person in Court
that his appearance now was like that of a maniac  or  rather of  a
drunk man, arousing from sleep and trying to collect his dissipated  
ideas.

 After an absence of about twenty minutes, the jury returned   at     
eleven o' clock at night and pronounced by their Chancellor the fol.
lowing-verdict :- My Lords: Owing to the contradictory statement   
or the evidence, we find the charge Not Proven.'

On hearing these joyful words, the prisoner sprung to his feet, clap .
ped  his, hands, uttered an exclamation of gratitude to the jury,  and
(all in  an instant) appeared   as if he   wished to  seize  his hat.
bound at once out of the Court.

Pearson who shook the prisoner by the hand ,state that it felt   like
the clammy hand of a person newly dead, or dying.                          

                   .....................................

Forbes & Owen, Printers, 118, High Street, First stair within the close.        TRIAL

     AND

SENTENCE

Just published, the Trial of Duncan Macmillan, for the
horrid crime of assaulting and raviging the person of
Jean M'Lauchlane, with the dreadful Sentence pro-
nounced upon him, which important trial came on
before the High Court of Justiciary yesterday, and
lasted for twelve hours.

The Lord Justice Clerk and Lords Commisioners of
Justiciary met this morning to sit on the trial of Dun-
can M'Millan, a young man, from Fort William, The
indictment charged the pannel with having violated the
person of Jean M'Lauchlane, a good looking country
girl, about 17 years of age.

The trial proceeded with shut doors, but we are able,
to give the following brief account of this indelicate
crime for which the prisoner stood charged.

It appeared that the pannel had met the  girl in the
town of Fort William, She consented to go into a
public house with him,  where the prisoner called  for a
bottle of porter, at the same time requesting the land-
lord to delute the liquor with half tumbler of whisky, which was
done and presented  to, the unsuspecting girl, who drank freely of
it. They shortly after left the  house,  and an reaching a  ford a few
miles  in the country, the  girl been me  disny, when the  prisoner  took
her on his back and crossed the water,  and committed the  assault
for which he stood  charged. 

The Lord Justice Clerk having. summed up.the evidence, the
Jury retired, and about ten o'clock returned a verdict of the Rape
not proven, and the assault with inten:  to ravish oroven by A plural- 
ity of voices.

Lord M'Kensie, in proposing sentence, said,  that  had the jury
found the prisoner-guilty of rape, he would have had no alternative
but to propose  the sentence of death ; but even although the pri-,
soner was relieved of that crime, yet be stood  convicted of one of
the most  brutal and degrading assaulte, an assault committed. in
the forenoon  of the day, at a rime he (the prisoner)  was possessed
of his   sober senses,    The  crime was  also aggravated by the art,
cunning, and stratagem  used  by him to commit the foul and dia-
bolical deed.  Under  there circumssances, and many other consi-
derations, he could not propose less then that the prisoner should
be transported beyond seas for the natural period of his life.
    In these sentiments  Lord  Moncrieff and the Lord Justice Clerk
fully concurred, and  M'Millan was accordiogly seutenced co tran-
sportation for life.

It was  remarked by almost every person who had admittance
into the hall where the girl M'Lauchlaue  was during the trial, that
she conducted herself in the most unbecoming  manner. The levity
she displayed was truly disgusting.

Thomas Yule pleaded guilty to breaking up the portmanteau of
a gentleman who  was lodging in his house, and stealing therefrom
30 Napoleons, a Dutch gold coin, and several other articles--Sen-
tenced to one  years' imprisonment in Bridewell.

James Hosie was then placed at the bar, accused  of having 'bor-
rowed   from   ten  different  .spirit  dealers as many copper gallon
measures , and  from another a copper half gallon measure, and ap
propriating them to his own use.    He pleaded guilty to six of the
charges, and was  sentenced to one years imprisonment in Bride.
Well.

Forbes & Co. Primers , 171, Cowgate.  Account of that Cruel and Horrid Rape which was perpetrated
by a Man on a Woman on the Paisley Road, on SATUR-
DAY, and who was apprehended by a passenger on the
Road, and is at present lying in Paisley Jail. Also, an account
of another Cruel Rape, which was committed on a Girl, only
thirteen years of age, by a Writers Clerk, in Cnmberland
Street, Edinburgh, on Monday last, and for which he is also
apprehended, and is now lying in Jail.

On Saturday evening, a most audacious and horrid affair took
place on the Paisley Road. As a woman was proceeding on
her way to Paisley, and when a few miles on the Road, she was
overtook by a man, who accompanied her but a short space, till
a favourable opportunity should occur that he might accomplish
his brutal design. On arriving at a part of the road, where
there was an open field, he forced the unprotected woman into
it, and in the most wanton and savage manner, commenced his
brutal attack upon the chastity of the woman, who struggled
hard with the unprincipled ruffian. Her tears and entreaties
had no effect upon this brutal and cowardly monster; he was
callous to every tender feeling, which should distinguish a man
from a brute. At length her cries were heard by a man who
was travelling the road, who hastened to the spot from whence
the voice proceeded, and found the woman in a most pitiful
situation, nearly worn out with the struggle she had made, and
she now lies in a very alarming state. The villain attempted
to make his escape, but was secured by the activity and cour-
age of the man who came to her rescue, and, with some assist-
ance, had him safely lodged in Paisley Jail, where an investiga-
tion  is going on respecting this horrid and shameful affair.—
paisley, May 10th, 1830. 

Another diabolical and cruel assault and rape was committed
on Monday evening, in a lodging-house in East Cumberland
Street, on a girl of 13 years of age, who was a servant in the
house. She accuses one of the lodgers, a writer's clerk, who
has, in consequence, been taken into custody, but strenuously
denied all knowledge of the crime. He has been examined by
the sheriff, and, we belive,  committed to jail, till liberated in
due course of law. The poor girl, we understand,  is very ill.
Edinburgh Mercury.

Serious crime is now increasing to an alarming extent, there be-
ing still two cases in Edinburgh, which are to be tried at Edin-
burgh in a short time; the one, the case of Stewart, the Police-
man and the other, the two carters, who committed murder,
rape, on the Edinburgh Road, near Gilmerton
and who behaved to the woman in such a shocking manner,
that  modesty would blush and tremble at its recital.
                                                    W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.