The Books of the Bible.

A LITERARY CURIOSITY.

In Genesis the world was made by God's creative hand;
In Exodus the Hebrews marched to gain the Promised Land.
Leviticus contains the law—holy, and just, and good;
Numbers records the tribes enrolled—all sons of Abraham's blood.
Moses in Deuteronomy recounts God's mighty deeds;
Brave Joshua into Canaan's land the host of Israel leads.
In Judges their rebellion oft provokes the Lord to smite;
But Ruth records the faith of one well-pleasing in his sight.
In First and Second Samuel of Jesse's son we read,                                    
Ten Tribes in First and Second Kings revolted from his seed.
In First and Second Chronicles see Judah captive made;
But Ezra leads a remnant back by princely Cyrus' aid.
The city walls of Zion Nehemiah builds again,
Whilst Esther saves her people from plots of wicked men.
In Job we read how faith will live beneath affliction's rod;
And David's Psalms are precious songs to every child of God.
The Proverbs like a goodly string of choicest pearls appear;
Ecolesiastes teaches man how vain are all things here.
The mystic Song of Solomon exalts sweet. Sharon's rose,
Whilst Christ the Saviour and the King the " rapt Isaiah " shows
The warning Jeremiah apostate Israel scorns;
His plaintive Lamentations their awful downfall mourns.
Ezekiel tells, in wondrous words, of dazzling mysteries;
Whilst Kings and Empires yet to come Daniel in vision sees.
Of judgment and of mercy Hosea loves to tell;
Joel describes the blessed days when God with man shall dwell.
Among Tekoa's herdsmen Amos received his call;
Whilst Obadiah prophecies of Edom's final fall.
Jonah enshrines a wondrous Type of Christ our risen Lord';
Micah pronounces Judah lost—lost, but again restored;
Nahum declares on Nineveh just judgment shall be poured.
A view of Chaldea's coming doom Habakkuk's visions give ;
Next Zephaniah warns the Jews to turn, repent, and live.
Haggai wrote to those who saw the temple built again ;
And Zechariah prophesied of Christ's  triumbhant reign.
Malachi was the last who touched the high prophetic chord;
Its final notes sublimely show the coming of the Lord.

Matthew, and Mark, and Luke, and John, the Holy Gospels wrote,
Describing how the Saviour died, His life, and all He taught,
Acts prove how God the Apostles owned with signs in every place.
St Paul in Romans teaches us how man is saved by Grace.
The Apostle in Corinthians instructs, exhorts, reproves.
Galatians shows that faith in Christ alone the Father loves;
Ephesians and Philippians tell what Christians ought to be;
Golossians bids us live to God, and for Eternity.
In Thessalonians we are taught the Lord will come from Heaven,
In Timothy and Titus a bishop's rule is given.
Philemon marks a Christian's love, which only Christians know.
Hebrews reveals the Gospel prefigured by the Law.
James teaches without holiness faith is but vain and dead;
St Peter points the narrow way in which the Saints are led.
John, in his three Epistles on love delights to dwell;
St Jude gives awful warning of judgment, wrath, and hell.
The Revelations prophesy of that tremendous Day,
When Christ, and Christ alone, shall be the trembling sinner's stay.

L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 18 Overgate, Dundee.E P I T A P H

O   N

Mr Samuel. Smith, Minister of Newgate.

U NDER this Stone
 Lies a reverend Drone,
Who preach't against Sin
With a terrible Grin,

In which some may think, that he acted but Odly
Since he liv'd by the wicked,and not by the Godly.

In Time of great need
In Case he was feed
He'd teach on to Read
Old Potches and Sorrals
As Antient as Pauel is.
But if no Mony come,
You might Haing for old Sam.
And founded in Pasalter
Be tied up in a Helter.
This Priest was well Hung
I mean with his Tongue,
And bold Sons of Vice
Would desern in a Trice,
And draw Tears from a Flint

o're the Devil was in't.
If a Sinner came him nigh
With a Soul black as Chimney
And had but the Sense
To give him the Pence
With a little Church Paint
He'd make him a Saint.
He understood Physack,
And would cure Cough and Colick,
And in short all the Ill's
That you read in the Bills,
With a Soveraign Balm
The World calls a Psalm

This his Newgate Burds once in the space of aNoon

Tho' they liv'd to no Purpose, they dy'd to some

In Death was his Hope,                 ( Tune,

For he liv'd by the Rope,
Yet this by the way
In his Praise we we will say
That like a true Friend,
His Flock did attend
Even to the Worlds End,
He never would Start,
From Hedge or from Cart,
Till he first saw them wear,
A Knot under their Ear,
And merrily swing,
In a well twisted String.
But if any died hard,
And left no reward,
As I told you before,
He'd inhance their old Score.
And kill them again,
With his murdering Pen.
Thus he kept Sin in,
And supported the Law,
But O cruel Fate,
So unkind tho'I say't.
Last Week to our Grief,
Grim Death that Old Thief,
Alas! And alack,
Had the boldness to pack,
This old Priest on his Back ;
But where he is gone,                             

Is not certainly known,
But a Men may conclude,
Without being rude,
That Orthodox Sam.
His Flock would not shame.

But to shew himself to them a Pastor most Civil,
As he led, so he followed them all to the Devil

FINIS.

London printed and Edinburgh Reprinted at the Foot of the Horse-weynd.STRANGE CIRCUMSTANCE



WHICH TOOK PLACE in the TOLBOOTH CH.



Jast Published, an Account of that Extraordinary &
Singular  Circumstsnce Which took place at the Tuesday
morning Lecture, in the Tolbooth Church, High Street,
Edinburgh ; when neither Minister or Prcentor having 
come forward, an old Woman mounted the Pulpit, ad-
dressed the Audience- sung Psalms-offered up Prayers,
and dismissed   the  Congregation, to  the astonishmen-
ed satisfaction of her Hearers

The Church IN DANGER. -The following singular circumstance
which we have on  unquestionable authority, occurred in the Tol-
booth Ohurch, in   this city.    It has  long been a Custom to have a
 Sermon preached every Tuesday forenoon in this Church, which the
City Ministers preach in rotation.    On the day referred to, a congre-
gation of 21 persons assembled in the Church, which is seated for
1300,  and although   they  therefore could not complain for want of
Church accommodation, there was a great want of pastoral superin-
tendance.    After waiting  considerable beyond the usual time, from
some accidental want of arrangement, neither minister nor precentor
appeared.     In this emergency,  an old woman who has been     regular
in  this Church   on Tuesdays for many years, resolved to supply the
want  of pastoral  superintendance   to the best of her ability on the
Voluntary  principal.     Accordingly she gave out a Psalm  in the usual
way,  and commenced singing, in   which she was joined by the rest.
of the congregation.    She then offered up  a prayer of considerable 
length,  sung  another psalm, and dismissed the congreation  in the
usual manner.      The  whole   proceedings were conducted   with the
greatest decorum,  and we have no doubt made a lasting impression
on all who witnessed the  extraordinary scene.       When   old  women
can   so  easily he   found to officiate with propriety in the absence
 of the City Ministers, we think even Dr Chalmers will
admit that there is still some hope that the mast of
heathenism which he says abounds to such a fearful
extent in this City, may yet be excavated, without the
errection of additional Churches. It may be admitted,
that this astounding innovation is one of the signs of
the times, strongly indication that the CHURCH Is IN
DANGER.                                   'SCOTSMAN'

A few   Sundays  ago, a Reverend Divine going to do
duty for a neighbouring incumbent, at a viliage not
many miles from the metropolis, was followed by a faith-
ful dog. on discovering which to avoid what happened,
he had his faithful follower, as he thought, safely secur-
ed by the side of his horse in the stable. In the course
of the service, however, Rover contrived to make his
escape, and made his way into the Church to attend
his master, who had just ascended the pulpit. placing
his paws and head upon the cushion in token of his
satisfaction, to the no small dismay of the of the
preacher, and amusement of the tittering congregation.

JAMES BROWN, PRINTER, EDINBURGH.Wonderful Case !

A strange and wonderful Account of a Rev. and well-
beloved Clergyman in London, who died a few days
ago, and remained in that state for eighteen hours, and
who after being dressed in dead clothes, and laid out
to be coffined, to the great surprise, terror and aston-
ishment of all present, started up in bed, and, at great
length, described the most wonderful,sights he had
seen, and what, he said, was to happen in the United
Kingdoms in a short time.

This REV. GENTLEMAN lived in London, and was beloved
by all his hearers for his kind and charitable turn, and his great care
of them by visiting and instructing them in what concerned their im-
mortal souls. But having been taken very ill, however, in the after-
noon's sermon, he was assisted into his house, and having laid
himself down in bed, he continued always getting worse, till the
next day, when, to all appearance, he died without pain, but went
away with a smile in his countenance. He was washed and dress.
ed according to the custom, and remained so for eighteen hours ;
at which time his wife and some of the elders were present, sitting
where the funeral was to be ordered, he started up in bed to the sur
prise of all present. The Minister called to them not to be afraid,
for though, said he, I was dead I am now alive and in my proper sen-
ses. O! the sights that I have seen, sit down till I relate to you what
I have to reveal to the world.                                         

On the last day of last month, towards the evening, after I had
got all the duties of the day over, the crisis took place, I was seized
with a strange and indescribable quivering. A rushing sound was
in my ears, I saw around me innumerable strange faces ; they were
bright and visionary, and without bodies, and tried to move, but
could not. For a short time a terrible confusion overwhelmed me,
and when it went off, all my recollections returned with the most
perfect distinctness, but the power of motion departed. I heard the
sound of weeping at my pillow, and I heard the voice of my wife
say, " He is dead. " I cannot describe what I felt at these words—
I exerted my utmost power of volition to stir, but could not move
even an eyelid. After a short pause my wife sobbing and convul-
sed with grief, drew near me, and kissed me, and then shut my eyes
before she left me. I heard, (for my senes had not as yet left me)
by the attendants that my friends had left the room, and I soon found
that the undertakers were preparing to habit me in the garments of
the grave. Their thoughtlessness was more awful than the grief of
my friends. They laughed at one another as they turned me from
side to side, and treated what they believed to be a corpse with the
most appalling ribaldry. The coffin was procured and I was shortly
to be laid in. My wife placed my head on what was deemed its last
pillow, and I felt her tears drop on my face at the time. After this
was over and the face cloth put down, I heard no more, nor of any
other thing belonging to this life.

In my trance I was carried away through a remote valley ; I was
told to carry my eyes towards the left side, when, to my terror, I be-
held a number of people, some of whom I knew, receiving their dif-
ferent punishments; some of them endeavoured to haul me into
their den, when my soul was troubled and my heart ached, and I
begged pardon of him who was ready to save me from  these evil
ones ; when in a moment after the scene left my sight ; I then was
taken to see a numerous assembly drest in the most ornamental man-
ner, and charmed by the most melodious music, where in heaven I
beheld a most glorious place ; I saw St John's vision, where he saw
the dead both great and small stand before the Lord; when I fain
would have entered into heaven's gates, but I could not; they desired
me to go from whence I came, and tell to the people what things I
had seen and heard ; to tell them that I had got a sight of both good
and evil, and lastly, to give them an account of the commotions that
will shortly take place in different kingdoms of the world, and of
times that are near at hand for the welfare of Britain and Ireland, in
not having any War, but that peace and plenty will be in the land
for every creature. So happy will those be who takes it to heart, for
to remember his latter end. Far more than these things were re-
vealed to me, but it will not answer to put too great an explanation
on them altogether.

Having thus given the fregoing account of himself, and having de-
livered his commission, he stretched himself down and soon after ex-
pired. The whole is written according to his desire, by one of his
elders,

EDINBURGH:—Printed for Francis M'Cartney.





A   YANKEE   SERMON.

My Beloved Brethering—I'm an unlarnt Hardshell
Baptist Preacher, of whom you've hearn afore, and
I now appear here to expound the Scripters, and
pint out the Narrer Way which leads from a vain
world to the streets of New Jaroozalum; and my tecks
which I shall choose for the occasion is in the leds of the
Bible, somewar between the Second Chronikills and the
last chapter of Timothytitus ; and when you find it, you'll
find in it these words : " And they shall gnaw a file, and
flee unto the mountains of Hepsidam, where the lion roar-
eth and the wang-doodle mourneth for his first-born."

Now, my brethering, as I have before told you, I am an
oneddicated man, and know nothing about grammar talk
and college highfalutin but I am a plane unlarnt preacher of
the Gospel, what's been foreordained, and called to prepare
a pervarse generashun for the day of wrath—ah ! " For they
shall gnaw a file, and flee unto the mountains of Hepsidam,
whar the lion roareth and the wang doodle mourneth for his
first-born."—ah!                                                                      

My beloved brethering, the text says they shall gnaw a
file. It does not say they may, but shall. Now, there's
more than one kind of file. There's the hand saw file, the
rat-tail file, the single file, the double file and profile, but 
the kind spoken of here isn't one of them kind naythen
bekase it's a figger of speech, and means going it alone and
getting ukered ; "for they shall gnaw a file, and flee unto
the mountains of Hepsidam whar the lion roareth and the
wang-doodle mourneth for his first-born."—ah !

And now, there be some here with fine clothes on thar
backs, brass rings on thar fingers, and lard on thar har, and
what goes it while they're young ; and there be others here
what, as long as their constitooshins and forty-cent whisky
last, goes it blind. Thar be sisters here what, when they
gets sixteen years old, cut thar tiller-ropes and goes it with
a rush. But I say, my dear brethering, take care you don't
find, when Gabriel blows his last trump, your hand's played
out and you've got ukered—ah ! " For they shall gnaw a
file, and flee unto the mountains of Hepsidam, whar the lion
roareth and the wang-doodle mourneth for his first-born."

Now, my brethering, " they shall flee unto the mountains
of Hepsidam," but there's more dams than Hepsidam.
There's Rotter-dam, Had-dam, Amster-dam, and " Don't
care-a-dam," the last of which, my brethering, is the worst
of all, and reminds me of a sirkumstans I once knowed in
the State of Illenoy. There was a man what built him a
mill on the north fork of Ager Crick, and it was a good mill
and ground a sight of grain ; but the man what built it was
a mirerable sinner and never gave anything to the church,
and, my dear brethering, one night there came a dreadful
storm of wind and rain, and the mountains of the great deep

was broke up, and the waters rushed down and swept that
man's mill dam to kingdom cum, and when he woke up he
found he wasn't worth a dam—ah ! For they shall gnaw a
file and flee unto the mountains of Hepsidam whar the lion
roareth and the wang-doodle mourneth for his first-born."
—ah!

I hope I don't hear anybody larfin ; do I?

Now, "whar the lion roareth and the wang-doodle
mourneth for his first-born "—ah ! This part of my tex, my
beseeching brethering, is not to be taken as it says. It
don't mean the howling wilderness whar John, the Hard"
shell Baptist fed on "locusts and wild asses, but it means, my
brethering, the city of New Y. Orleans, the spot for hard
bargains, where corn is wuth six bits a bushel one day. and
nary red the next, whar niggers are as thick as black hugs
in spiled bacon ham, and gamblers, thieves. and pick-
pockets goes skiting about the streets like weasels in a barn-
yard, whar honest men are scarcer than hen's teeth. and
whar a fellow once took in your beloved teacher, and bam-
boozled him out of two hundred and twenty-seven dollars
in the twinkling of a sheep's tail. but he can't do it again.
Halle'ujah—no ! " For they shall gnaw a file and flee into
the mountains of Hepsidam whar the lion roareth and the
wang-doodle mourneth for his first-born"—ah.

My brethering, I am the captain of that flat-boat you see
tied up thar. and I've got aboard of her flour, bacon, taters,
and as good Mononganela whisky as ever was drunk, and
I'm mighty apt to get a big price for them all; but what,
my   dear   bretbering,   would it   all be wuth if I han't got
religion ?     There's nothing like religion, my baetbring ; it's
better nor gold or silver "simcracks ; and you ran no more
get to heaven without it. than a jaybird can fly without a
tail—ah ! Thank the Lord !      I'm an oneddicated man, my
brethering,   but  I've  searched the Scripters from Dan  to
Beersheba,  and found Zion right side up, and hard-shell
religion the best kind of religion—ah!     'Tis not like the
Methodists, what spects to get to heaven by hollerin' hell-
fire ; nor the Universalists that get on the broad guage and
goes the hull hog—ah ! nor like the Yewnited Brethering,
that takes each other by the slack of thar breeches and hists
themselves   in ;   nor like the   Katherliks   that  buys  threw
tickets from  thar priests; but may be likened unto a man
who had to cross a river—ah !—and the ferry-boat was gone
so he tucked up his breeches and waded across—ah ! " For
they shall gnaw a file and flee unto the mountains of Hep-
sidam whar the lion roareth and the wang-doodle mourneth
for his first-born."

Pass   the  hat,   Brother  Flint, and  let every   Hard-shell
Baptist shell out.An account of the strange and wonderful manner in which John Fox, who some time ago lived
near Nottingham, was sorely afficted with an Evil Spirit, that threw him into fits, de-
prived him of the power of speech, spoke within him, and endeavoured to baffle the efforts of
the Ministers who attended him, whose names are here mentioned; also an account how he was
at length relieved, after remaining three years dumb, and lived a virtuous and religious life.

IN the life of Mr. Richard Rothwell (a  famous
Preacher at Mansfield, in the county of Nothing-
ham) we have this remarkable account, as  it was
drawn up by Mr. Stanly GOWER of Dorchester:
There was one John Fox, living about Nottingham,
who had no more learning than enabled   him to Write:
and read. This man was possessed with a devil,
who would violently throw him down; and take
away the use of every member of his body, which
was changed as black as pitch, while  those fits  were
upon him; and then spoke  with an audible voice 
within him, which seemed sometimes  to sound out
of his belly, sometimes out of his throat, and some-
times out of his mouth, his lips not moving; and
thus he continued for a considerable time;  many
prayers were put up to God for  him and great re-
sort was made to him, especially  by several famous
ministers, as Mr. Bernard of Batcomb, Mr. Lanly
of  Traswell, and others, betwixt whom  and  John
Fox there passed  many papers, in writing, he dis-
covering his temptations, and  they writing him an-
swers because he was struck dumb, as will be af-
terwards seen.                                                   

Among the rest, Mr. Rothwell went to see him,
and, before he came, the devil told all that were in
the house of it, saying,  'Yonder comes Rothwell,
but I will make a fool of him before he goes; where-
upon the people looked out, and saw him coming,
about a quarter of a mile from the house; as soon as 
he entered the room, the devil said, ' Now, Roth-
well is come,' and, as some say, added,' Thou sayest
there is no possession; what thinkest thou now? here
is a man opens not his lips, and yet he speaketh;'
and, after a while, he said, ' Say nothing to me of
this man, for I tell thee he is damned,' and he ad-
ded thereto many fearful blasphemies.

Rothwell— Thou art a liar, and the father of lies;
nor art thou so well acquainted with the mind of
God concerning this man, which makes thee thus to
torment him; therefore I believe thee not; I believe
he shall be saved by Jesus Christ.

Davi'r—He is a murderer, and thou knowest no
murderer must come inio heaven

Rothwell— Thou liest, for David murdered, and
Is in heaven; and the Jews, with wicked hands,
crucified the Lord of Glory, yet Christ prayed for
them; and St. Peter exhorted them to repentance,
that their fins might be blotted out

Devil—But this man hath not repented, cannot,
shall not repent

Rothwell—If he had not repented, thou  would it
not have told him so; but if he  has not, I believe
God will give him repentance, and thou shall  not
be able to hinder it.

Devil—Thou art a murderer thyself, and yet
talkest thou thus?

Rothwell— Thou liest again; I have only fought
the Lord's battles against his known enemies.

Then the devil swore and blasphemed, saying,
Thou didst murder one this day, as thou camest
hither, and there is one behind thee who will testity 
it;' upon which Mr. Rothwell  looking  over his
shoulder, the devil set up an hideous laugther, that
nothing could be heard tor a great while, and then
said, ' Look you now, did not I tell you that I
would make Rothwell a fool? and yet it is trne,
thou didst murder one this day, for as thou camest
along such a bridge (which he named) there I would
have killed thee, and there thy horse trod upon a
fly, and killed it.'    It seems Mr. Rothwell's hoese
stumbled at that place, the devil having power to
cause it, though   without hurt to either horse or
man—Mr.R. then said, ' Thou hast often be-
guiled me, but I hope God will in time give me
wisdom  to discern, and power to withstand all me
delusions, and he it is that hath devlivered  me out of
thy hands, and, I doube not, will also deliver this
poor man;'   the devil   then blasphemed fearfully,
and quoted many scriptures out of the Old and New
Testament, both in Hebrew and Greek,cavilling
and playing the critic therewith, and backing his
allegations out of the  fathers  and poets, in their
own language, which he quoted very  readily, so
that the company trembled to hear such things from
one that understood no learining, and neither moved
tongue nor lip all the while; but Mr. Rothwell was
wonderfully enabled, by divine power, to detect the
devil's sophistry; upon which the devil said,' What
need I stand talking with thee, all men know thou
art bold Rothwell; and thou fearest nobody, nor
carest for word,therefore I'll talk to thee no thore,
Mr. R.turning to the people, said, 'Good people. 
you see the  goodness of our God, and  his great
power,  though the devil made a fool of me even
now,  through my weakness, God hath made the
devil dumb now; do but observe how the man lies,
therefore Let us  go  to  prayer, and that God who
hath made him dumb, will,I doubt not, drive him
out of this poor man.'    The devil hereupon raged,
blasphemed, and said, ' If  thou go to prayer, I will
make such a noise that thy prayer shall be distracted,
and thou knowest God will  not hear a distracted
prayer; but  thou hast got a device, because  thou
wilt  not be distracted, thou shuttest thy eyes in
prayer (for so he always did) but if thou pray, I
will pull out thy eyes!'    Mr. R. replied,I look
to find thee as great an enemy in this duty now, as
I have done heretofore, but I fear not thy threats,
I  know  thou   art  limited, aad   God heareth the
prayers of the upright, therefore, in the name of
his Son,  Jesus Christ, we will go to prayer;' and
accordingly they did so, Mr. Rothwell kneeling by
the bed-side where the poor man lay.    The devil
made a most horrible noise; however.  Mr, R,'s
voice was louder than his, and in a thort time the
divil roared at the very face of  Mr. R. wherewith
the body of the man moved, and the hand was held
up which was the first time he stirred; Mr. Roth-
well took the hand, and held it down with much
ease, two men being scarcely able to hold the other
hand;yet prayers were still continued,  and at length
the devil lay silent in the man, and soon after de-
parted out of him; the man then fetched many deep
sighs, insomuch that they belived he was dying,
but his colour suddenly returned, and the use of all
his members, senses, and understanding; and at the
next petition, to the glory of God, and amazement
of all the company, he cried out, Amen! where-
upon they all returned thanks to the Almighty, and 
departed to their homes.

Mr  Rothwell now desired the  man to take some
food, but he refused, saying, the devil told him he
would be choaked with the first bit  he should eat;
but Mr. R. forced him to eat, after  which he grew
quite well.    Mr. R then left  him, when he was in-
stantly \struck dumb, and remained so for three years,
after which he recovered his speech, and lived re-
ligiously and virtuously till the day of his death.
Printed by T.Duncan, Glasgow.THE REEL OF BOGIE ! !						(W. Nichol Lithog? Edin.r)

(Published by A. Lesage, 21 Hanover St. Edin.r)                                                                                                    ~                                          W. Michol Lithog./ill/

A CLERICAL DANCE

Sometimes danced as a Foursome-sometimes as a Threesome and sometimes as a Twosome Reel.

"As Charlie glowr'd amazed and curious

The mirth and fun grew fast and furious" _Burns.











The FREE KIRK and her Boy  TAMMY.

TUNE—" My Boy Tammy."

SCENR—Boy Tammy sitting at a Table, scouring some suspicious-looking Coppers
with Intellectual Sand, and a Leaf of the Bible.

Enter MOTHER KIRK.
" Whaur gat ye the bawbees ?
My boy Tammy;
Whaur forgather'd ye wi' these ?
My boy Tammy;
I dinna see the thistle blae—
The shamrock, nor the roses gay :
Sae tell me whaur they cam' frae—
I dinna think they're canny."

TAMMY—(scouring away)
" Ne'er fash about the bawbees,
My kind mammy ;
Speer naething.  and I'll tell nae lies,
My kind mammy :
I gat them as I gat the lave—
I ask'd,my frien's—they freely gave ;
Sae hand your tongue, and dinna rave—
Thir cam frae Indiana."

KIRK—(gazing earnestly at a cent)—
" There's 'bluid upon the bawbees,
My boy Tammy ;
There's bluid upon the bawbees.
My boy Tammy;
There's bluid- I feel my vitals freeze —
I'm fear'd —I faint—my heart misgi'es—
A curse is on the bawbees !
Awa'-—they are nae canny.

TAMMY—(Terrified, imploringly)
" Hush ! dinna speak in sic a strain,
My kind mammy;
Just listen, and I'll mak' it plain,
My kind mammy;
I'll prove—just set your mind at ease—
I'll prove—eh ?—ony thing you please—
I'll prove that they're a' guid bawbees,
My sweetest, sweetest mammy."

KIRK— (solemnly)
" I've heard a voice on thunder borne,
My boy Tammy;
I've seen the' finger raised in scorn,
My boy Tammy :
Heaven rings wi' DOUGLAS'S appeal,
An' thrills my heart like burnin' steel,
An' conscience racks me on the wheel-
Ye've wrang'd—ye've griev'd your
mammy."

TAMMY—(scratching his hcad)
"Waes me, but you are gettin warou,
My kind mammy;
Ye're foamin' like a keg o' barm,
My kind mammy."

KIRK—(indignantly)
" Shall I, as free as ocean's waves,
Shake hands wi' women-whippin knaves,
An' build kirks wi' the bluid o' slaves ?—
Sen' back—SEN' BACK THE MONEY !''

TAMMY—(distracledly)
Be mercifu! an' say na mair,
My kind mammy ;                
Ye'll drive me headlong to despair,
My kind mammy ;
 Send back the------!' Oh! It canna be;
Ye're gyte ! that wad destroy, you see,
The Kirk's Infallibility!
Ca' canny—Oh ! ca' eanny !"

KIRK—(much affected)
" I'm griev'd to hear you speakin' sae.
My boy Tammy;
My auldest bairn—wae's me the day.
My boy Tammy;
I'm never out o' scrapes an' stews,
There's aye some crotchet in your views;
Ye'll stain my robes—ye'll toom my pews—
They're flockin' back to GRANNY !

TAMMY—(puzzled)
" What wad ye hae me dae? What? Fling-
Queer, queer mammy !"

KIRK—(resolutely)
" Yes; ' put away th' accursed thing.'
My boy Tammy ;
Oh ! cleanse awa' the filthy stain-
Return them a' their plunder'd gain."

TAMMY—(shaking his noddle)
" I canna do't, an' yet I'm fain."—

Enter FREDERICK DOUGLAS —
" I say, SEND BACK THAT MONEY !"

Exit TAMMY—overturning in, in his progress, the
table with the coppers, while MOTHER CHURCH
and DOUGLAS cordially shake hands.

SANDERSON, Printer, 36. Cowgate-head, Edinburgh.