TRIALS

A Full, true and particular account of
the Trial and Sentence of John Ramsay,
who was tried a second time on the
charge of rioting at Ayr ; Together with
the trials and sentences of the different
prisoners who were tried this week,

MOBBING, RIOTING, AND ASSAULT.
The Court met this day at  11  o'clock, when
the diet  was called against John Ramsay, John
Moffat, senior, Andrew Forsyth, Alexander Gol-
die, and John Scott, weavers, who stood accused
of mobbing und rioting in the town of Girvan,on
the 12th, Jnly, and of assaulting several of the spe-
cial constables and of committing these crimes
when armed with  fire-arms,  swords,   bayonets,
bludgeons, and other lethal weapons, which they
recklessly used in the  midst of crowded assembla-
ges of people, to the great danger of the lieges, to
the serious injury  of their petsons, the great effu-
sion of blood, and danger of life.    This, in short,
was a riot which rook place in the town of Girvan,
after an Orange Procession entered it.    The whole
of the prisonrrs pleaded Guilty, generally, except
Ramsay who pleaded guilty to  the mobbing and
rioting, but not of the assault.

The Solicitor-General believing that Ramsay
did not with his own hands assault any person,
accepted that plea,

Mr Cowan spoke in mitigation of punishment,
and read a number of certificates which proved
that Ramsay and Goldie bore the most exemplary
characters.

The prisoners were then sentenced—Ramsay and
Forsyth to nine months imprisonment, and L.20
cautiou the other three prisoners to 12 months
imprisonment, and to give security to keep the
peace in L.20 to keep the peace for five years, or
other 3 manths imprisonment.Alarming  Riot.

A full and particular Account of that most alarming
RIOT at Wick Caithness Shire, in consequence
of Cholera having appeared there on Thursday
last, the 26th July, against Dr Allison of this city,
who was in imminent danger of his life, and  had to
leave the place.

We copy the following from the Courant of Saturday last, and are
sorry for the occurrence of the circumstances, in cosequence of
the false and vague reports and insinuations made  of on the
occassion :....

" We are sorry to state that two cases of decided cholera occurred
on Thursday week, in  the same family, at  Wick, where several
thousand strangers from all parts of Scotland and foreign countries
resort at this seeson for the purpose of prosecuting the herring fish-
ing.    Both cases, which were of the most malignant character, un-
fortunatly  terminated fatally in  a  Very short time.  

  Until   the strangers arrived,  the medical gentleman (Dr E. D. Allison, from

Edinburgh), who had charge of the hospital, &c. at Wick, appeared
to have secured the confidence of all classes  of the inhabitants in
the. arrangements which he proposed and carried into effect, in the
prospect of an  attack  of the cholera.    This, however, was much
shaken when the fishermen arrived from Mussel burgh, Fisherrow,
Dunbar, &c. who related to the inhabitants frightful stories about
the number of persons, their friends and neighbours, who had been
poisoned, some of whom had  been buried alived, and  that all the
patients whom Dr Allison had attended had died ; and foretold, that
if he remained much longer, that he would play the same tricks to
them likewise, as he was sent down for no other purpose than pro-
curing fifty subjects every week for Edinburgh  College.    It was
confidently asserted, too, that twelve dozen of coffins  were ready ;
and that Dr A. had engaged,   that if he once got a patient into the
hospital, he would take good care that they would not come out a-
gain alive.    The circumstance of the first case having terminated
fatally with groat rapidity, and after an exhibition of some medicine,
appeared to confirm these grassly  unfounded  stories.    The cases
were alleged net to be cholera  and  Er A, was immediately charged
with the murder of the patients—with poisoning all the public
wells, which were forsaken.    Crowds, mostly composed of south
country fishermen, soon collected  around the quarntine hospital,
which was getting ready to receive the survivin ginfected  family,
and were harangued in the most violent manner by several of their
number.  Dr A. in vain assured the mob that he was innocent of
 the crimes imputed to him; that he had never attended any person
at the towns above mentioned, and that all  the other charges was
 unfounded ; but he was answered with the  most fearful impreca- .
 tions and threaning language, horrid yells, and cries of " Murder
him--off with the murderer ! " &c.    A ruffian made an attempt to
knock him down, but the  Chairman of the Board of Health pro-
tected him, and indoing so  became the  object of the fury of the
mob, from whom he was rescued with dfficulty,  whilst Dr A. after
taking refuge in a house, was attended to his lodgings by one of the
magistrates.    In the meantime, the mob, now amounting to 1590,
ordered the few contents of the quarantine hospital   to be instantly
removed on a cart, and then safely lodged in the cholera hospital.
Large bodies of special constables patroled during the night near
the Chairman's and Dr A.'s residence,    As Dr A. found the people
not only determined to oppose him in all his measures, but threat-
ened his life, he therefore conceived it to be vain to anticipate future
usefulness, and immediately resigned his duties, which the Board
found, tor the same reasons, absolutely necessary to accept, as be-
ing the only  means for calming the fury of the populaee.    A few
panes of glass in the cholera hospital were broken in the riot, and
two of the most violent rioters were apprehended, but they were
liberated next day.   Several members of the Board waited in the
hotel and saw Dr A. depart safely with the mail for Edinburg, with
warm expressions of respect and regret.

Edinburgh: Printed for John Lyons.—Price One Penny. DREADFUL

RIOT





Full and particular account of that  dreadful  and

bloody engagement which took place betwixt  a

party of Smugglers, and some men belonging to

the Preventive Service, on Wednesday last,   at

St John's Haven, when three men  were most

cruelly murdered.

Wednesday last, information was given to the
Preventive party stationed near John's Haven,
through-some unknown channel, that  a person of
the name of Montgomery, a smuggler, well known
in that part of the country, was expected with a
valuable cargo of smuggled gin, tea, &c.

Accordingly, no pains were spared by the Pre-
 ventive party to secure so valuable a prize. Every
means of defence were iustantly got ready, in case
Montgomery and his party, whose daring charac-
ters were se well kaown, should make any resist-
anee.

About two o'clock in the morning, when one of
the Preventive party was stationed on the ridge of
rocks, crlled the  Smuggler's  Cairn,  he observed
something at a short distance, which, upon minute
observation, turned out to be  a fishing boat,  used
in that part of the country for smuggling ;  he im-
mediately gava the signal to some of his   compan-
ions that a smuggler was in sight.

All hands instautly made for the place, and con
cealdd themselves at the back of the rocks that
abonnd on that coast.

In a few minutes Montgomery and his bold
companions, 15 in number, landed, and were or-
dered to surrender in the King's name, upon pain
of instant death.



This unexpected salute instantly told them what
customers they had to deal with. We shall never
yield was the instant reply of Montgomery. My
lads, 'tis at  most only man to man—sink the cus-
toms, and vengeance for the past. In an instant
shot and grape, accompanied with the clashing of
swords, gave dreadful note of the bloody affray.

Montgomery, with his little, but gallant band,
fought to the last,  and only left the scene of action
when three of his companions lay weltering in their
gore, Seven preventive-men were wounded, some
of them dangerously.

We are convinced, that the happy and efficieat
system of policy acted upon by our present Minis-
ters  will prevent a similar occurpence.

 Printed for Fergus Ferguson. Bookseller.

Dreadful Riot in London.

A Full, True, and Particular Account of that Great Public Meet-
ing which took place in Coldbath-fields, London, on Monday last,
for the purpose of forming a NATIONAL CONVENTION,
giving an account of the Speeches delivered on the occasion,--
Together with an account of the desperate attack made on the
meeting by a body of 3000 Policemen, under the direction of
Lord Melbourne, and Colonel Rowan and Mr Mayne, -with the
names of the killed and wounded, and the number taken prisoners.

From the Caledonian Mercury,  May 16th,  1833.

During the last week bills have been issued, stating that a meet-
ing would be held in Coldbathfield this day, in order to adopt the
preliminary measures necessary for the calling together of a NA-
TIONAL CONVENTION.  In consequence of that bill, on Fri-
day a proclamation was issued by the Secretary of State for the
Home Department, declaring that such a meeting would be illegal
and dangerous to the public peace, and warning all persons to keep
away, as the authorities had received orders to maintain the peace
at all hazards.

Accordingly, this morning the Police began to asrive [arrive] in Gray's
Inn Lane before twelve o'clock, in great numbers ; and were dis-
posed of in stable-yards in the in neighbourhood of the intended place
of meeting.

Before one o'clock, Lord Melbourne and the two Commissioners
of Police, Colonel Rowan and Mr Mayne, with about a dozen Ma-
gistrates, had assembled at the White Hart, Gray's Inn Lane.

By about one O'clock, there were from 600 to 700 persons as-
sembled in the fields, which number had increased to upwards of
1000 at two o'clock, the hour named for the Chairman to open the
meeting In the meantime thote assembled were amused by two
prosessed infidels, who promulgated their doctrines.

We understood the Committee were sitting in the Union public-
house, but they did no t make their appearance till three o'clock,
when a young man (Mr Lee or Leigh) and three or four others,
mounted a van that was pladed in front of the palings at the top of
Calthorpe Street; but as the carman was afraid of his van, and
could not be persuaded to stop, they were under the necessity of
dismounting from their elevation when Mr Lee, got upon the pal-
ing, and proposed that Mr Mee should act as Chairman, which
proposition was seconded and carried.

Mr Mee then also got upon the paling, and, after thanking the
meeting for the honour they had conferred on him, said he was glad
to see before him so many noble men. It was not the coronet or a
flashing equipage that made a noble man, though in the eyes of the
world they made noble ; but he gave that name to those he saw a-
round him, because they were the producing power—the real wealth
of the country-(Cheers.) He was thankful to the Whig Ministry,
who had given an importance to the meeting which it otherwise would
have wanted—(cheers and hisses)—but the question now for them to
consider was. whether, as they had met under sucn disadvantages,
they should go on-(Go on, go on)—or whether they should adjourn
till a more convenient opportunity-(No, no, go on, go on) He was
but working man with a family, therefore if they were not prepared
to give to his family one-tenth of their earning they should not cry
" Go on."---------The speaker was here interrupted by the cry of
" Police !" who bad arrived at the end of Calthorpe Street, and form-
ed right across it, whet, they advanced in double-quick-time upon
the meeting. Another party came up by a side street, and also
attacked those assembled.

The Chairman made some few further remarks, and called out
to the meeting to " stand firm ;" but with these words in his mouth,
be jumped down from his position, and escaped by the back of the
Hlouse of Correction. The police came on, and used their staffs
pretty freely, their object evidently being to catch the Chairman,
and those connected with him in the meeting.

The meeting was dispersed in two or three minutes, running in
all directions. Many heads were broken, and we are sorry, for the
character of Englishmen, to say, that one policeman, named Ro-
bert Cully, letter C. 95, was stabbed through the heart, and died
in less than ten minutes after. Other two men of the same division
were stabbed-one through the arm, and the other in the side, but
they are expected to do well.

The police then formed in the neighbouring, streets, and sent out
parties in pursuit of those who were implicated in the day's pro-
ceedings. Before five o'clock they had got upwards of thirty pris-
oners, among whom were Mr Lee, and several of the Committee
—they also succeeded in capturing all the flags of the Unions that
were present, with various devices, some surmounted with the red
cap of liberty. We left at six o'clock, when all was quiet ; part of
the police had then retired, and the search was still continued af-
ter Mr Mee.

Edinburgh, Printed for Francis M'Cartney.          RIOTING!!



A Full and Particular Account of these
Great Riots and Mobs that took place
at Dundee, on Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday last, the 6th, 7th and
 8th July, 1830, whan Three Men lost
  their Lives,   and about 200 severely
wounded! By an Eye-witness.           

ON Monday evening last, the 5th July instant,
 a man of the name of Heron, belonging to
Dundee, happened to be in a public-house there
drinking along with some others. In the company
there chanced to be an Irishman of the name of
Thurrel, and the conversation turning upon the                  
late fatal battle between Sandy M'Kay and Symon             
Byrne, they cast out about it, and from words were             
proceeding to blows, when it was  suggested  by             ;
some one, that they should rather retire to the Law,
a quiet spot in the vicinity, and there figh out
their quarrel in a fair and regular stile, They ac-
cordingly proceeded instantly to the Law, each at-
tended by several friends, where the battle com-
menced in proper form. By this time a great
crowd had collected, and Heron happened to be
knocked down at the very first outset, Thurrel con-
tinued to strike and kick him while down, when            
several of the spectators cried out foul play. Some             |
of Thurrel's friends, however, vociferated it was
all quite fair, to lay on the b------, which so enrag-
ed the Scots party, that they made a rush at Thur-
rel and his countrymen, who were pretty numerous,
and forced them off the field in all directions,
beating them most unmercifully with sticks, stones,
and every missile they could find. The scene at
this time was truly alarming, many men, women
and children being lying, trampled under foot,
much cue and bruised, and unable to make their
escape.

After putting all the Irishmen they could find to
the route, the mob then proceeded into the town,
and began searching out the houses of all those
whom they knew to be natives of the sister king-
dom, dragging them out of their beds, and beating
them most unmercifully,breaking all their windows,
and even tearing away and burning the very wood-
en stairs that led to their habitations. Tuesday
night was most alarming, the mob parading the
streets, and no Irishmen durst be seen, if recognised,
they were instantly knocked down and maltreated,
the police not daring to interfere with so numerous
a mob.

On Wednesday more than eighteen thousand
people assembled at the Cross, when the rioters
proceeded to the Roman Catholic Chapel, which
they partially destroyed, breaking all the windows,
and other articles in the interior. The Magistrates
had sent for some military, and sworn in about 300
extra constables, to endeavour to preserve the peace
of the town. The people assembled again on Thurs-
day, and were searching out the poor Irish, and
chasing them out of the town, which they were
glad to leave with their lives Our informant, who
happens to be an Irishman, narrowly escaped with
his life, having been chased for above a mile out
of town, along with three others. He says there
were three poor fellows killed, besides upwards of
200 wounded, some desperately, with broken legs
and arms ; and, that they were by no means quel-
led when he was forced to fly for his life, as they
were parading the streets in every direction, in a
riotous unruly manner, and swearing aloud they
would not leave a single Irishman in Dundee. He
left there on Thursday evening, and met with a
great many of his country between and there, fly-
ing from their enemies.

Edinburgh: Printed for William Robertson. 
RIOTING!!!

A Full and Particular Acconnt of these
Great Riots and Mobs that took place
at Dundee, on Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday last, the 6th, 7th and
8th July, 1830, when Three Men lost
their Lives, and about 200 severely
wounded! By an Eye-witness.

ON Monday evening last, the 5th July instant,
a man of the name of Heron, belonging to
Dundee, happened to be in a public-house there
drinking along with some others. In the company
there chanced to be an Irishman of the name of
Thurrel, and the conversation turning upon the
late fatal battle between Sandy M'Kay and Symon
Byrne, they cast out about it, and from words were
proceeding to blows, when it was suggested by
some one, that they should rather retire to the Law,
a quiet spot in the vicinity, and there fight out
their quarrel in a fair and regular etile. They ac-
cordingly proceeded instantly to the Law, each at-
tended by several friends, where the battle com-
menced in proper form. By this time a great
crowd had collected, and Heron happened to be
knocked down at the very first outset, Thurrel con-
tinued to strike and kick him while down, when
several of the spectators cried out foul play. 
 Some  of Thurrel's friends, however, vociferated it was
all quite fair, to lay on the b-----, which so enrag-
ed the Scots party, that they made a rush at Thur-
rel and his countrymen, who were pretty numerous,
and forced them off the field in all directions,
boating them most unmercifully with sticks, stones,
and every missile they could find. The scene at
this time was truly alarming, many men, women
and children being lying, trampled under foot,
much cut and bruised, and unable to make their
escape.

After putting all the Irishmen they could find to
the route, the mob then proceeded into the town,
and began searching out ths houses of all those
whom they knew to be natives of the sister king-
dom, dragging them out of their beds, and beating
them most unmercifully, breaking all their windows,
and even tearing away and burning the very wood-
en stairs that led to their habitations. Tuesday
night was most alarming, the mob parading the
streets, and no Irishmen durst be seen, if recognised,
they were instantly knocked down and maltreated,
the police not daring to interfere with so numerous
a mob.

On  Wednesday  more than eighteen   thousand
people assembled  at the  Cross, when  the rioters
proceeded to the  Roman Catholic Chapel,  which
they partially destroyed, breaking all the windows,
and other articles in the interior.    The Magistrates
had sent  for some military, and sworn in about 300
extra constables, to endeavour to preserve the peace
of the town. The people assembled again on Thurs-
day, and were searching out the poor Irish, and
chasing them  out of the town, which they were
glad to leave with their lives     Our informant, who
happens to be an Irishman, narrowly escaped with
his life, having been chased for above a mile out
of town, along with three others.    He says there
were three poor fellows killed, besides upwards of
200 wounded, some desperately,  with broken legs
and arms ; and, that they were by no means quel-
led when he was  forced to fly for his life, as they
were parading the streets in every direction, in a
riotous  unruly manner, and swearing aloud they
would not leave a single Irishman in Dundee.  He
left there on  Thursday evening, and met with a
great many of his country between and there   fly-
ing from their enemies.                                

Edinburgh : Printed for William Robertson.

SERIOUS OUTRAGE

and Disturbance in Glasgow.

An account of a Serious Outrage and Disturbance
in Glasgow, on Saturday night last, 21st June,
wheu the Military were called out, and 43 per-
sons were apprehended and lodged in prison.

On Saturday night, about eight o'clock, a number of persons from
Bridgeton, Rutherglen, and Camlachie, who had been accustom-
ed to walk on the banks of the river above Dalmarnock Bridge,
proceeded to clear the way by making breaches in the fortified
walls and fences which obstructed their former recreation. A
number of encouraging spectators were on the spot. Scarcely
had the operators finished their labour when a detachment of the
Enniskillen Dragoons. came up and took 43 individuals into cus-
tody. Several persons plunged into the river and crossed it, to
avoid the risk of seizure. Various individuals walked through
the gnps on Sunday morning ; but by and by the soldiers were
again employed to prevent the passage. At the time the walls
were erected, they were for some nights levelled by the people,
and it was not till a strong guard was placed.on the spot by the
Proprietor, that the works were finished. The spikes at the ter-
mination of the wall next the river were in imitation of the thorns
of a Scottish thistle—an unhappy emblem for the occasion. The
wall so finished was impregnable to the solitary walker; and,
though it constantly excited dissatisfaction, it stood unmolested
till some neighbouring prodrietors took it for a precedent, and
laid down stone and lime for similar works.

The people began the attack by collecting all in a body, the formost
being provided with boring instruments. About 12 stout young men
were assisted to the top of the wall, and with quarry wedges, levers,
heavy hammers &c, they split they stones in which the iron was fixed
and pushed the forked roller into the water with three cheers. The
wall which is nearly 10 feet high. and 4 feet thick, was attacked at
different parts, and after much labour, at half-past to the obnoxious
erection was erased and the former passage opened up. A person
made his appearance on horseback, and said, ' Well, lads, you have
got the wall down, I hope you will not  injure the house,' No, no,
was resoanded from all voices, ' we will touch nothing but public pro-
perty.

The crowd then went off to the second wall about a mile
distant, at the end of this wall were large piles of wood driven
to the edge of the water, to this they set thorns and loose
wood, to which they set fire to. The fire served them for a
light, and they soon levelled this wall also, which was very
strong. Some person sent to the sheriff, a statement, that an
assemblage, collected by beat of drum, some of them armed,
were committing violent outrages. Acting upon this inform-
ation, the Sheriff had come out with the military. The mob
instantly dispersed, some waded through the river, and the rest
flew in all directions. No resistance was made. The military
took 43 prisoners.

The road between Tollcross and Camlachie was thronged the
whole night by people either on the out-look for their friends, or
to get the news. At 5 o'clock the prisoners were brought into
jail, escorted by a party of cavolry, and attended by a large crowd.
As they entered the jail, three cheers were given them, which
they returned. The former walk being opened up, the lieges
next morning were taking that way when they were stopped by
the cavalry who remained there all day, and reinforcements of
horse and foot were sent out in the evening for the same purpose.
At a very early hour on Monday morning, as many masons were
set to work as could ger room, and the first breach was soon re-
built. The people were kept off by the military, who threatened
to fire on any who passed the limits. All the prisoners have been
liberated except one.—From the " Glasgow Chronicle."

Subscriptions for defraying the expence of clearing the pu-
blic walks, on the banks of the Clyde, from every annoyance,
are going briskly forward. This is more praise-worthy than a
lawless mob committing every kind of depredation.  TRIAL



Full, True, and Particular account of the
Trial of Samuel M'Lauchlan, master
baker, and Thomas Badger, before the
High Court of Justiciary, for the Riots
at Lauder at the election of a member of
parliament, and for assaulting Lord Mait-
land, the Sheriff of the County, the Fis-
cal, and Mr Simpson, one of the Magis-
trates, by forcing him into a coach and
driving him out of the town, in purpose
to keep him from voting,



This day came on before the High Court of
Justiciary the trial of Samuel M Lauchlan, baker,
and Thomas Badger, shoemaker, both residing in
the town of Haddington, for mobbing, rioting, and
assault; also for violently carrying off Mr Simpson
one of the Magistrates, so as to defeat the franchise
at the country election, which took place at Lauder ,
on the 4th day of May last.

The prisoners, although implicated in forming
part of the said mob, yet they became responsible
as being art and part in attacking Lord Maitland,
one of the candidates ; also with attacking the
Sheriff and the Fiscal of the county, and with as-
saulting Mr Simpson, by hurling him a consider-
able distance on the street, and putting him into
a post chaise, when he was driven off, whereby he
was prevented from attending the meeting that was
to take place that day.

It appeared from the evidence adduced by se-
veral respectable inhabitants belonging to Had
dington and Lander, that on the day fixed for the
election of a member of parliament, gangs of dis-
orderly persons marched into Lauder, from Had-
dington, Galashiels, Tranent, Kelso, and .surround-
ing districts, headed by music, carrying bludgeons
and flags, and bearing yellow cockades on their
breasts and hats. These outrageous mobs were
addressed by the prisoner M'Lauchlan, who instil
gated them on to riot.

During the course of the day the Court House
was broken into; Mr Simpson, councillor, hurled
through the streets, and carried off in a post chaise ;
Lord Mainland the unpopular-candidate, the Sheiiff
and the Fiscal, were attacked and severely beaten
and maltreated.

Two of the Magistrates of Haddington gave the
pannel. good characters, only that they considered
M'Lauchlan as an eccentric character. He was
often seen spouting, addressing crowds, and severl
times had played the part of a Merry Andrew.
The Solicitor General addressed the Jury at great
length. He said that although the prisoners did
not actually make personal attacks upon the func-
tionaries mentioned, yet it was clearly proved that
the prisoner M'Lauchlan had stimulated the mob
to not, and that, any person who is present at such
notons mobs become in part responsible for the
damage done and violence used.

The advocate for the pannels having addressed,
the Jury, the Lord Justice Clerk summed up the
evidence.

The Jury returned a vordict of not guilty against
Badger, and   not  proved  by  a   majority, of one
against M'Lauchlan.

FORBES  & KAY,Printers, 171.Cowgate..An account  of the trial of John Skelton which came on before the High Court of Justiciary,
at Edinburgh, on Monday the 2d of March, 1812, for Rioting and Robbery, on the streets

of Edinburgh, on New Year's Morning last, and who is to be executed in that City, on
Wednesday the 15th of April next.—Also the Indictment of Six Persons, concerned in the
same Riots, and accused of the Murder of Dugald Campbell, Police Officer.                     

MONDAY, March 2d, came on, before the
High Court of Justiciary, Edinburgh, the
trial of John Skelton, accused of robbing, on the
night of the 31st of December, 1811, or the morn-
ing of the 1st of January, 1812,

1. George Edmonstone, of a watch-ribbon, with
a seal and key attached. 2. William Robertson, of
a watch-chain, with a seal and key affixed. 3.
William Jolly, of a green silk purse, &c.

The Prisoner having pleaded Not Guilty; the
following witnesses were called to substantiate the
charges:—

George Edmonstone, clerk, was on the High-
street at half past  11 o'clock on the last  night of the
year 1811; crossed from the south to the north side
of the street, a little above the Flesh Market Close;
was stopped by some persons, from about 12 to 20
in number, he supposed, mostly young lads, who
demanded money from him; but, without giving him
time to deliver, struck him with sticks, knocked him
down, and left him lying in a stair, all wet with
blood; tried to get his watch, but the swivel broke;
got his seal and ribbon—shown and identified. At
the close of this witness's evidence, the first charge
Was abandoned, he having distinctly sworn that the
robbery was committed within the Flesh Market
Closs, and the charge laid as on the High-street.

William Robertson, stoneware merchant; was on
the street last new-year's morning; was going from
the West Bow to Nicholson-street by the South-
Bridge; left his shop at five minutes past 12; went
down the High-street with Mr Freyer till he came
to about Mr. Blackwood's shop on the South Bridge;
saw a man, knocked down at the corner; just as he
was turning it he was surrounded, pinned up to the
Well, and robbed of seventeen twenty-shilling notes-
and fourteen guinea notes, which he had in a pocket
book, together with the chain of a watch, seal and
key; he immediately missed his pocket-book; thought
his watch was gone also, as he missed the chain;
there might be about 40 or 50 lads, headed by three
rather taller than the rest, of a size with the prisoner,
but he could not recognize any of them. Shewn
chain, &c. and identified them. He intreated them
to be quiet, and he would give them a shilling to
drink his health, but he received a blow on the head
which knocked his hat off, and saw a stick coming
down to split his skull—the mob afterwards opened
to let him go south.

William Jolly, student of divinity, was in the
street between twelve and one on the first day of
the year; was surrounded by a party of lads, who
demanded a shilling to drink. Said he had no cash,
when two lads, stouter than the rest, held his arms,
and one, a smaller lad, searched his pockets; the
band cried out, knock him down He took out a
green silk purse and shook it, to show he had no
money, when one of the gang snatched it out of
his hand; he received a blow on his arm, and an-
other which brought him to his knee—purse, &c.
shown and identified.

Walter Alexander, apprentice to James Brown,
shoe-maker—saw the Prisoner, John Skelton, on
the last night of the year 1811, about ten o'clock
in the evening; he was at the head of Wordsworth's
Lane, Calton-strect, along with James Johnstone,
mason, Kenneth M'Kenzie, the two Clarks, Ellis
and Campbell, two apprentices to a carver and
gilder, and some more, he does not recollect who;
he heard of no previous agreement to meet that

night; Johnstone desired him to get a stick -- he got

two—Johnstone said, bring as many as possible, but
did not say for what purpose. Skelton joined them;
Johnstone was a leader, and he, witness, and the
rest were to follow. An attack was planned on
the Police; and Skelton, Walker, and Johnstone,
in their outset, lifted an orange or lemon box from
a grocer's door, which they threw at the Police, but
is not certain whether the prisoner had any hand in
this or not—went to Mr. Allan's grounds, and got
branches from the trees; came up in a body to Leith-
street, and afterwards in a straggling way, Johnstone
generally in front; he ordered them to take up stones-
to throw at the Police. He saw about a dozen
Police-men at the head of Leith-street, when he
ran away with Johnstone into the head of an entry,
and did not see Skelton after—saw a number of,
people knocked down in the Old Town afterwards,
saw a Police-man knocked down at the Fountain-
well, and a man at the head of the Flesh-market-
closs. The witness, after receiving a suitable ad-
monition from the Court, was dismissed.

John Chisholm, Police-officer, was on duty the
last night of the year; recollects the rioting; was
sent by the Magistrates for Mr. Tait, in whose house 
he was when one o'clock struck, and with whom
he returned to the Police-office, where he remained
till some more of the officers came in, when he went
out with them He fell in with the prisoner be-
tween two and three o'clock, near the head of the
Flesh-market-closs, at the head of a parcel of fellows,
who, when they observed the police, exclaimed,
there's the b—s, knock them down; but when he
and the others turned on them they ran off; the
Prisoner was catched and carried to the Police-office,
where he was searched, and two watch-strings, the
one a ribbon, with a seal and key attached to it, the
other a cord, with a seal and watch-key, were found
in his waistcoat pocket; he was afterwards stripped
and searched more minutely, when a green silk
purse, a note from Dr. Ritchie to Professor Jamie-
son, 9s. in silver, one 1s. 6d piece, were found on
him, all clean and unsullied; the streets were very
dirty; he said the purse belonged to his sister.

[Kenneth M'Kenzie, John Grant, Thomas Mc-
Gibbon, William Walker, and Other witnesses,
were also examined, but their evidence Was nearly
similar to that given above. The witness M'Kenzie
was committed to jail for prevaricating on oath.]

Here the Prisoner's declarations were read, which 
went to a denial of the charges—averring that he
had picked up the articles in the street.               

Mr, James Younger, with.whom the Prisoner had
been a servant for one year, gave him an excellent
character for sobriety and honesty. Mr. Innes, gun-
smith, with whom the Prisoner had been for nearly
three years, also gave him a very good character, as
did also several other persons.

A verdict was returned by the Jury on Tuesday,
all in one voice finding the Prisoner guilty of the
second and third charges; but, on account of his
former good character, they unanimously and earn-
estly recommended him to mercy.—He was sen-
tenced to be hanged on Wednesday the 15th of April.

Hugh M'Intosh, Neil Sutherland, Hugh M.Don-
ald, (who went by the nickname of Boatswain)  Ge
Napier, John Grotto, and Jas, Johnstone, six of the
persons accused of being concerned in the above
riots and robberies, have been indicted to stand trial
for the murder of Dugald Campbell, Police-officer.
Printed by Thomas Duncan, 159, Saltmarket.Most Shameful 

   RIOT

AT THE

Anti-Popery Lecture
Roxburgh Street Church.

Edinburgh, Saturday,   March 18, 1841.

Seldom has our city been the scene of
such a disgraceful riot as that which took
place last night, The following are a few
particulars connected with it, as they have
reachedus; but the whole will of course
soon undergo a judicial investigation.

For some weeks past a Mr Leckie has
been delivering a course of lectures against
Popery, in Roxburgh Street Chapel, in
which he zealously endeavoured to refute
and expose the errors and fallacies promul-
gated by the doctrines of the Church of
Rome. These lectures, we understand,
have been pretty well attended throughout,
and in general conducted with a good deal
of decorum ; though it was evident that his
severe animadversions on the tenets of their
faith were productive of any thing but the
most amicable feelings in the bosoms of that
section of his auditors who were adherents
of the Roman Catholic persuasion. Symp-
toms of these feelings.  occasionally evinced
themselves at some of the meetings ; but on
Wednesday evening their demonstration
was somewhat more noisey than on previous
occasions. The subject of that evening's
lecture being to be resumed last night, the
house was early filled, and from the turbu-
lence which  prevailed   before  the   hour of
lecture, it became apparent that the opposi-
tion party had mustered their forces in great
strength, and now bade defiance to all order.
In this state of things, it was deemed ad-
viseable to postpone the lecture till another
meeting would be held in which order might
be secured.    But on Mr Leckie's attempt-
ing to make this announcement to the meet-
ing, it became the signal for commencing a
general row ; and, amidst the most defening
mixture of shouts, yells, groans, and hisses,
the book-boards of several of the pews were
torn down, and thrown promiscuously about
the house.    The noise and confusion of the
scene soon extended itself to the outside of
the house,   where an   immense  crowd was
soon collected.    Meanwhile the proceedings
of the assailants within went on briskly—
the peaceable part of the auditory,  in en-
deavouring to make out, were met by the
uplifted sticks of the others, and were glad
to shelter themselves behind the pillars and
even under the seats.     A body of police,
however, at  length  arrived, and succeeded,
though with some difficulty, in taking into
custody some of the  principal  actors in the
affray, whom they conveyed to the police-
office ; a dense crowd accompanying them
the whole of the way.    We understand that
considerable damage has been done to the
fittings of the Church.

In expectation of the case being heard to-
day, the Police Court was considerably
thronged. It is said, however, to come on
before the Sheriff on Tuesday.

---------ooo--------

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.OUTRAGE

BY IRISH SHEARERS

Copy of a letter received this morning
from an inhabitant of Lauder; con-
taining a particular account of that
dreadful Riot which took place there
on Monday morning last, between
a number of Irish shearers and the
inhabitants.

Lauder, Sept. 26th 1821.

Sir,-In answer to your enquires respecting the riot, I have
collected the following accounts for your satisfaction. A man
and his family, all Irish, of the name of Dougherty, a resident in
Glasgow, consisting of his wife, three sons, and two daughters,
a wild and unruly sett of people, and I suppose a kind of travel-
ling Gypsies, as they profess to be boiler-makers, or, as we call
them, tinklers, came here last week on purpose to be hired on
Monday morning for the Harvest. During the last week num-
bers of shearers, mostly our own town's folks were engaged by the
neighbouring farmers ; this enraged the Hibernian, and he was
heard to swear vengeance in a public house on Saturday night.
It is currently reported here, but I cannot vouchsafe for it being
truth, that his daughter would never leave Lauder until she set it
on fire. Early on Monday morning, this motely groupe com-
menced the disturbance; they had been drinking all night, and
were actually in a state of madness, Being hiring morning, and
by far the greater number of the shearers Irish, the Doughertys
were joined by their countrymen, and a disgraceful scene of attack
and plunder was made upon the town. The inhabitants was
forced to collect to defend their lives and property. Some of the
Pats, having a longing after kirn'd milk and butter' had entered
the house of a old woman, and laid seige to the kirn, upon which
she left them in quiet possession, but when she got safe into the
street, set up a dismal yell; this served to make the Inhabitants
look round them, more especially as the rioters were seen entering
the shops, and others making their escape with the gudewifes,
cheeses. A bloody battle commenced at this time, each party
armed with pitch-forks, hooks, &c. several severe wounds were
received on both sides, and one of the Dougherty's received seven
lead bullets in his body from a rusty old gun, which some of the
farm servants procured, but he was forced to desist by the constables
in case of killing any of them, as they only wanted to apprehend
the ringleaders. We succeeded in driving them from the town
and took 16 into custody. It was thought prudent, in case of
another attack, to send for a guard of military, and a small detach-
ment arrived next morning. The sheriff of the county arrived
and assisted by the magistrates, a precognition of the affair is

going on.RIOT

at Musselburgh

A full and particular account of a
most serious and distressing RIOT,
which took place on Musselburgh
Links yesterday, Thursday, 31st of
July, 1823, between the Irish,
& Colliers, and Salters, with a full
account of how it originated, and
the number of the Killed and
Wounded.

A most disgraceful scene took place on   Musselburgh Race-
ground, immediately after the second heat was run, owing as
some says to a Irishman upon  ths coarse threshing a baker
with a large stick, when the baker knocked, him dawn in re-
turn, and a number of Irishman fell upon the baker and used
him most shamefully, the by-standers took part and a general
ensued ; others says some people got  their pockets picked
while looking on at some fellows  who  was  gambling with
the thimbles and the garter, and those playing finding them-
selves always the losers,  among  which  were   a number of
colliers, salters, &c. who are in general very opstrepulous, fel-
lows, wheu they think themselves wronged a quarrel ensued
betwixt the losers and the gainer, when  it came to blows, in
which the mob took part, and the almost efforts the peace-
officers could make, had not  the least effect, part of the pail-
ing enclosing  the  course  was   torn  down,  and stands  and
tables broken to pieces.    The  gambler  with whom the riot
 originated with, happening to  be an Irishnan, the mob fell
to and  threshed every  one of the same country they could
meet with, stones were  thrown  in various  directions by a
number of mischievious boys which rendered it very unsafe
to those people who were at a distance and did not interfere
with the crowd, one poor old mao while in  the act of cating
some mussles at the  outside of a tent, received a severe COH-
cussion in the head a little  above the temple; a girl got a
serious blow in the back with a half-brick and was carried
away insensible.  A number of men received severe blows
and the blood was   flowing  copiously  from   them.    One
Irishman took shelter into a tent kept by one of his country-
men, when the   mob  disgracefully tore down, the erection,
and broke and spoilt whatever came is their way. A woman
was carried away dangerously hurt.  The mob in the most
wauton manner attacked the shows, and shamefully tore the
erections asunder, and knocked down and beat those who
appeared in the least to be opposite to their unlawful pro-
cedings ; they did a great deal of damage to them.    It is re-
ported that there are one dead and other  two no hopes are
entertained of their recovery.     We are happy to  say that
the peace-officers succeeded in apprehending some of the
most active among the rioters.