Trial and Sentence



A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of William M'Toague, and John M'Crevie,
Who are to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday
the 19th May next 1824, for Issuing Forged Notes,
and for Housebreaking and Theft.

AT Glasgow, on Wednesday the 14th April 1824, were tried
before the circuit of Justiciary, WILLIAM M'TEAGUE,
and,MARGARET M'TEAGUE, his daughter, accused of issuing,
in this city, forged Notes, upon different occasions. The father
pleaded Not Guilty, and daughter Guilty on two cases, but not
knowing them to be forged.

Mr M'Neil; after calling several witnesses, addressed the Jury
for the Crown, and restricted the libel, as to Margaret M'Teague,
as an  arbitrary punishment.

Mr White, counsel for the prisoners, then said, that if they found
William M'Teague Guilty, he hoped they would bring in a recom-
mendation to mercy.

Lord Meadowbank recapitulated the evidence, when the Jury re-
tired for about twelve minutes, and returned verdict, finding
William M'Teague Guilty of the first and third charges ; and Mar-
garet M'Teague of the first and second.

Lord Meadowbank then addressed the prisoner Margaret
M'Teague in a most feeling manner. He was sorry, he observed,
that she acted under the influence of her father. She was sentenced
fourteen years transportation.

After a few obseruations from Lord Gillies, Lord Meadowbank.
delivered a suitable address to William M'Teague, and sentenced
him to be hanged at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 19th of May next.

 David Sharp John Cameron. John M'Crevie, Daniel M'Crevie,
and Margaret Bell, were indicted for housebreaking, theft, and
stouthrief. They were charged with having, on the night of Thurs-
day the 11th of December, forcibly removed the under sash of a
window in rhe house of James Shepherd, situated at Springvale ;
and having forcibly obtainsd entry, they proceeded to the apart-
ment in which Mr Shepherd was in bed, and did, with a poker, or
some other weapon, strike him one or more violent blows, and
threatened to murder him if he did not shut his eyes, and remain
quiet. Having thus obtained masterful possession of the house,
they feloniously carried away two mahogany knife cases, ten horn
spoons, two stones of cheese, a crock, with 11lbs. of butter, a jar
of whisky, and several other articles. Further, the prisoners, with
the exception of the female, were charged with having, on the 17th
December, broken into the cellar of Alexander Peterkin situated in
Weaver Street, and stolen a number of articles of wearing apparel,
and Margaret Bell, and John M'Crevie, were charged with resetting
the goods. Sharp and Cameron were outlawed for not appearing.
The diet, against Margaret Bell, was deserted pro loco et tempore.
The other two persons pleaded Not Guilty.

The Counsel for the Crown then proceeded to prove his case,
after which the Jury having been addressed by Mr M'Noill, for
John M'Crevie, they retired for a short time, and returned with a
verdict, finding the libel Not Proven, for Daniel M'Crevie, and a
Verdict of Guilty of the first charge as libelled, and the second
second charge, Guilty of theft, against the other pannel.

Lord Meadowbank in his address to the culprit, observed, that af-
ter a patient trial, in which he had been ably defended by his coun-
sel, he had been convicted by a most respectable Jury of the firsr
charge, as libelled in the indictment, and iu the second theft.    For
the first of these he had forfeited his life, and it was now his pain-
ful duty to pronounce upon him the last sentence of the law.     He
must be taken back to the place from whence he came,  and did on
the scaffold by the hands of the executioner.    He had been found
Guilty of invading the house of an old man, Ling in that security
which is the lot of the inhabitints of this country to enjoy, and had
assaulted and deprived him of his property by force and violence.
There was no hope of pardon in his case, and he was warned to ap-
ply to the Almighty, whose power is infinate, and whoso goodness
is equal to his power.    He was then sentenced to be hanged on the
19th May.    The unhappy man was led from the bar protesting his
innocece.

Edinburgh, Printed, for Robert M'Millan, Prince One Penny.Trial and Sentence.



A full true and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of
William Gilchrist, George Gilchrist, and James Brown, who were
tried before the High Court of Justiciary on Wednesday 13th
July, on a charge of abstracting a box from the Prince Regent
coach from Glasgow to Edinburgh, containing L.5712 6s. on the
24th March last, when George Gilchrist was sentenced to be
executed on the 3d of August next—William Gilchrist and Brown
were dismissed from the bar.

Yesterday, Wednesday 13th July 1831, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary the trial of William Gilchrist, Ceorge Gilchrist,
and James Brown, charged with having abstracted from a box in
the Prince Regent coach from Glasgow to Edinburgh, on the 24rh
March last, £5712 6s. belonging to the.Commercial Banking Com-
pany. The prisoners pleaded Not Guilty.

It would be impossible to give even an outline of the evidence, it
so voluminous. Mr P. Robertson objected to four witnesses as not
being properly designated, after which the Sheriff of Lanark-shire,
and the Fiscal for Glasgow, gave evidence as to the robbery, and
the examination of the panels. The agent of the Commercial Bank
Campbelton stated the amount of specie sent from there to the agent
at Glasgow, in the bank box, which consisted 294 sovereigns, and
six guineas, in gold, and L.100 in silver,'all of which was safely re-
ceived at Glasgow. Mr Lorrain, teller, said he remembered having
delivered the bank box to the Porter on the 24th March last, to be
sent to Edinburgh, which contained L.5712 6s. in gold and notes.
Smith, the porter, deponed that he chained the box in the Prince
Regent coach, and booked it. M'Dowal, coachman, drove the coach
to Airdrie, where he was met by M'Millan, another coachman, who
drove the coach to Edinburgh, and deponed that the boot, in which
the box was chained, was untouched at that place.

Mr Millan deponed to finding the coach broke at Bathgate, where
he opened the boot to take out a parcel, and said to Mr Ross some-
thing must be wrong, but there were no inside passengers. The
ony inside passengers from Glasgow to Edinburgh, were a man
and woman, who were taken up at the junction of the roads by
M'Dowal, and who were let out about a mile and a half past Air-
drie, though there were six marked in the way-bill. Mr Ross, at
Uphall, corroborated the last witness, and stated, that on looking
into the inside of the coach, he found several parcels addressed to
the Commercial Bank scattered about, when the coachman exclaim-
ed, " Good God, will the bank box be away ?"

Fndlay, the porter of the bank at Edinburgh, attended the coach
office, as usual, for the box, got it, but found nothing in it ; after
which, James Morrison, innkeeper at Falkirk, who was admitted
King's evidence, detailed the circumstances of the robbery at great
length, with much reluctanee, and after being repeatedly warned by
the Court of his dangerous situation. He  was followed by another,
socious criminus, Thomas Campbell, joiner in Mid-Calder, who also
deponed, at great  length, what he knew of the case. His testimony
was followed by that of another accomplice's, Robert Simpson,
cooper in Falkirk, who described fully the circumstances of the
robbery, being in the coach with George Gilchrist, who was dress-
ed as a woman, and who, with a centre-bit and chissel, broke through
to the boot, and pressed open the box, when the money was taken
away.

After the examination of several other witnesses, who clearly
proved the whole history of the case, in every particular the prison-
ers declarations were read ; when their counsel proceeded to bring
forward their exculpatory evidence, one hundred witnesses having
been cited, which occupied the Court a very long time.

After which the Jury were addressed agianst and for the prison-
ers at great length, when the Lord Justice Clerk, in his usual im-
partial and comprehensive manner, summed up the evidence. The
Jury then retired, and in a short time returned a verdict, finding
the eldest Gilchrist guilty, and James Brown and William Gilchrist
not guilty. After a most imdressive address from the Lord Justice
Clerk, George Gilchrist was sentenced to be executed here on Wed-
nesday morning the 3d of August next. This trial excited very
great interest, and lasted upwards of twenty-six hours.


Printed for Murdoch M'Rae, Price One Halfpenny.Trial and Sentence.                                                                                             
A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of JAMES MITCHELL and JOHN
SHARP, who were tried before the High Court of
Justiciary on Monday last, 11th July, and who are to
be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 17th
August, 1825, for Highway Robbery.

ON Monday the llth July, the Court met and proceeded to the
trial of JAMES MITCHELL, and JOHN SHARP, carters,
and horse dealers, on a charge of high-way robbery, alleged to have
been committed by them on the 13th May last, in a field on the
farm of Muirpark, in the parish of Libberton, upon the person of
David Knox, carter, Gilmerton, who was by force and violence,
deprived of £28 sterling.—The pannels pleaded not Guilty.

David Knox lived in Gilmerton with his mother, who keeps
horses. He was at Dalkeith fair on the 12th of May last, where
he sold two horses. He sold one of them for 20 guineas to a Mr
Hogg, from whom he received two £5 notes, one of these was on
Royal Bank, and the other on Sir W. Forbes and Co. He put the
along with three he had brought from home, into the pocket of an
inside vest, under the band of his small clothes. Archibald Brock-
ie was present, and saw him so dispose of his money. He sold the
other horse, to R. Bain, for £4, 10s.—putting the bank notes beside
those he previously secured, and 30s. of silver in his fob Witness,
after selling the horses, went into the Harrow Inn, with Thomas
Marr and Robert Scott, and remained there till about two o'lock the
following morning. He was induced to stay so late that he might
have company home. They had only two gills of whisky, and
three bottles of porter—but all were sober. Had all his money
when he left Dalkeith, in company of Marr and Scott. When the
party reached Lugton toll, it was joined by the pannels, and shortly
after by William Mathewson, and William Wilkie. The whole
went on together, till they came to Campend, where one of the pan-
nels advised witness to go through the fields. to show him .(Sharp)
a nearer way to Gilmerton than the high road. The pannels and
witness accordingly left the other men, and went across first one
field, and over a dyke till they came to a second park, which was
progress of being ploughed. Sharp then went behind him, in a 
laughing manner, and griped him by the face, throwing him down-
backwards to the ground. Sharp put his hand upon witness's
mouth, and prevented his crying or speaking; at the same time
Mitchell tore away his fob and the silver. Mitchell then offered to
go away. Sharp however said, " that was not all yet," and direc-
ted him (Mitchell) to go to the other side. Mitchell immediately
went to the other side and pulled out the book—took the money out
of it, and then threw it down. The pannels were upon witness for
three or four minutes, and when they left him they went towards
Gilmerton, while he endeavoured to regain the friends he had left
on the Dalkeith road. He overtook Mathewson and Scott, Marr
and Wilkie had gone on. a little way before. He then told what
had happened him. When he got the length of Edmonstone gate,
he met a man named Thomson, and being rather confused, the lat-
ter agreed to see him to his mother's house. Witness sew Sharp
in the market, he knew him well, for they had been brought up in
the same town, and were school fellows. Sometime after the rob-
bery, he returned to the field, and pointed out the spot where the
violence was committed on him.

Preceding evidence was corroborated by several other witnesses.

The Lord Justice Clerk summed up the evidence at considerable
length, remarking that there never was an act of violence to the
extent mentioned, more clearly established; but it was for the Jury
to say whether it had been fully corroborated, and whether what
had been brought forward in exculpation tended to weaken that
evidence.

The jury, after a few minutes absence, returned a viva voce ver-
dict, finding the pannels guilty, but unanimously and earnestly
recommended them to mercy.

Lord Gillies, after a few observations on the nature of the crime
of which the paanels had been convicted, proposed that they should
be executed at Edinburgh, on the 17th day of August next. Lord
Mackinzie concurred; and the Lord Justice Clerk then feelingly
and, impressively addressed the pannels, before pronouncing the
awful sentence, which doomed them to piate their crimes on a scaf-
fold on the 17th of August


Edinburgh: Printed for Alexander Turnbull....Price One Penny.     TRIAL

	and Sentence.

An account of the trial and sen-
tenece before the High Court of
Justiciary this day, Thursday.
of James Sime for house-break-
ing & theft, who is to be executed
at Edinburgh, on the 15th August
next.

This day, Thursday, 12th July, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary the trial of James Sime accused of
four different crimes of housebreaking and theft, by enter-
ing into a house in the West Bow, Edinburgh, by the
means of false keys, and stealing a leather trunk, contain-
ing wearing apparel, &c. also entering a house in Lady
Stairs Close, Lawnmarket, with false keys, and stealing a
quantity of soft goods ; likewise entering into the Porters
Lodge at Trinity Cottage, and stealing various articles of
wearing apparel ; and lastly breaking into the Porters
Lodge at Greenhill, near Colington, and stealing therefrom
different articles of men, women and childrens wearing;
apparel.

Jean Berrie or Rae, stated that her house is situated in
the West Bow, and that on the 25th day of March last, it
was entered in her absence, and various articles stolen,—a
trunk and various articles was shown her, which she iden-
tified as her property, also a letter dated Forfar  9th March,
1827, addressed to her, which she likewise identified,

Robert Hamilton said that the premised possessed by
him in Lady Stairs Close, Lawnmarket, was entered into,
on Saturday the 26th day of May last, and a piece of Shirt-
ing, 3 pieces of apron check, pieces of gown cloth, India
silk handkerchief, British silk handkerchiefs, cotton hand-
kerchiefs, cotton handkerchiefs, blankets, sheets, stockings,
shawls, &c. &c. Various of the articles were produced in
court, which the witness immediately identified.

From other evidences adduced, it was proved, that the
prisoner, on the 28th day of May last, did break into the
Porters Lodge, at Trinity Cottage, in the parish of North
Leith, and stole away various articles of weaving; Apparel,
&c. and also breaking  into the Porters Lodge, at Green
bill, near Edinburgh, the property of Sir Wm. Forbes, on
the 3 th day of May, 1827, and stealing theressom a quan-
tity of Wearing apparel.

A certificate of a Sentence against  the prisoners for theft
before the Police Conrt, was read in evidence against the
prisoner.

The Lord Advance addressed the Jury, which was ably-
answered by the prisoners Advocate.

The Jury retired for a short time, when they returned
their verdict, finding the prisoner guilty but recommended
him to mercy.

The Lord Justice Clerk addressed the prisoner, in his
usual solemn and pathetic manner, impressing on him the
necessity of turning his mind and thoughts on a future
state. He then sentenced him to be executed at Edin-
burgh, on the 15th day of August next.                TRIAL

and Sentence.

 An account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of John Wilson and Duncan
Fraser, two young men belonging
to Edinburgh, who are to be Execu-
ted at Edinburgh, on Wednesday
the 28th, day of January, 1824.
for breaking into the Shop of James
Smyth. Taylor, St. Mary's Wynd
Edinburgh.

This day Monday Dec 22d 1823, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary, the trial of John Wilson and Ducan
Fraser, for breaking into the shop possessed by James Smyth
Taylor, situated in St, Mary's Wynd, by forcing out a pane
of glass in the window, by which they entered, and stole
away two new blue coloured short coats, one pair of silver
grey trowsers, one pair drab mole skin trowsers. one pair
corded jean trowsers, one green surtout, a black coat with
yellow gilt buttons, a boy's brown great coat, a black coat, 2
pairs of steel grey trowsers, and one pair of drab coloured
stripped Jean trowsers; on the 8th day of October last; they
were also proved to be both habit and repute thieves, by
the production of various sentences passed in the Court of
Police against them at former periods.

They pied both Guilty. The two prisoners appeared very
confident when they were brought into court, and by their
appearance seemed not to be the least intimidated : but as
the proceedings were going on they paid more serious atten-
tion.                         

After some observations from the Public Prosecutor, a
verdict of guilty in terms of their own confession was brought
in against them.

The Lord Justice Clerk addressed the prisoners at consi-
derable length, giving them the most salutary advice as to
regulating their conduct for the short remaining period of
their lives. He then passed the awful sentence of the law;
which was that they are to be executed at the common place
of execution, head of Libertons Wynd, Edinburgh, on Wed-
nesday the 28th of January next.

The prisoners are two young men, the one seemingly about
18 years old, and the other 20. When sentence WAS pro-
nounced against them, they were very much affected, they
shed tears plentifully.

It is hoped the youth of Edinburgh, who are walking in
the same wicked career, commencing with small crimes,
which soon leads them on to greater, will take a timely
warning by the awful end which so soon awaits those two,
and the example and advice of the one who so lately suffered
will deter them from following a course which is sure to lead
them to an end untimely and shameful.

PRICE ONE PENNY.TRIAL 

AND SENTENCE.

Full, True, and particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of WILLIAM HARDIE, Gamekeeper, before
the High Court of Justiciary on Monday, for Shooting at
William Boyles, or Bailes, with intent to Murder ; also a
correct account of the Trial of that notorious Edinburgh
Thief, ROBERT HORN, and JAMES M'LAREN,
for daring Housebreaking and Theft.

William Hardie, gamekeeper to William Johnston of La-
thrisk, was charged with wilfully, maliciously, and unlaw-
fully discharging a loaded gun at John Boyles or Bailes, which
took effect on his arm and elbow, with intent to Murder.
The prisoner pleaded not guilty, it appeared from the evi-
dence of Boyles or Bailes that he and his wife had gone in
November last to Bavelaw for the purpose of cutting heather
to make brooms, and that they took shelter during the night
in a ruinous house at Redford ; that his wife went off in the
morning to sell some wares, the pony remaining with the hus-
band. [   ] o'clock in the afternoon two men came,
one of whom asked witness what he was doing there? Wit-
ness replied that he was gathering a few bones. Prisoner in-
sisted on his going away; he used no force, but said he would
bring a gun and shoot both him and his beast. Hardie and
the person with him then went away, and returned soon af-
ter witness's wife rejoined him. Witness went to the door
of the house on hearing footsteps, and found the two men,
each armed with a gun. which they levelled at him. Hardie
said if witness did not go away he would shoot him dirnctly.
Witness then went back to the house and brought a bit of
rotten fir stick, but without intention, he said, to strike with
it. When he came out one of them spoke, and Hardie level- 
led his piece, fired it at witness, and shot him below the elbow.
Witness ran after the men, and took off the sleeve of his coat
to shew prisoner what he had done, but he would not stop.
Came to town on the Monday to Mr Black, the police sur-
geon, and shewed him his arm, which was then much swol-
len. The witness' wife got chick-weed, boiled it, and ap-
plied it as a poultice to the arm to lay the swelling. A
number of other witnesses being examined, the charge was,
after a trial which lasted seven hours. clearly proven against
Hardie; but owing to his former good character the Lord 
Advocate restricted the libel, and he was sentenced to four
months imprisonment.

Robert Horn, and James M'Laren, Were then put to the
bar on a charge of theft by means of housebreaking, (aggra-
vated as to Horn by his being habit and repute a thief,) hav-
ing on the night of the 6th or moring of the 7th October,
feloniously entered the house of John Carruthers, grain-
dealer, Gasstown, parish of Dumfries, and carried off an
orange coloured linen bag, fourteen pounds or thereby in
silver; a white cotton bag, twenty-six gold sovereigns: a
ready reckoner, fourteen bank notes, partly for one pound,
and partly for one guinea each; a deposit receipt of the
British Linen Company for L.20; a bill for L.45, &c.

Horn pleaded not guilty ;  N'Laren guilty.

The charge was completely proved against the prisoners
Some individuals from whom the prisoner Horn, had pur-
chased various articles, were called, among whom were,

Jacob Ashenheim. jeweller, (being a Jew, was sworn with
his hat on, a staff in one hand, and the other on the Old
Testament,) said he knew Horn, and sold him a silver watch
on the evening of Thursday the 9th October. The price
was L.2,  13s---Identified the watch.

Davidson Nicoll  had known Horn for seven years,for the
last five he had borne the character of a daring desperate,
and determined thief. 

The jury found the pannels guilty. Horn was sentenced 
to 14, and M'Laren to seven year' transportation.

John Campb.ll Printer, Edinburgh.
Lamentation

                    OF                                                              

PETER HENDERSON, late Letter Stamper in the Gen-
eral Post Office, Edinburgh, and who is to be Executed
here on Wednesday the 16th July, 1828, for abstracting
Money from and Destroying the Letters.

O all who hear of my sad state,
Oh pity my dire case,
Doomed to an ignominious fate,
Deprived of human bliss,

O if my days were to begin,
I to the world would shew,
That I would shun the paths of sin,
Wherein destroyers go.

But ah ! these days are past and gone !
In fetters here I lyc,
Confined in a dungeon strong,
By men condemned to die.

Because GOD'S law I did transgress,
And would not walk therein:
But fled the paths of righteousness,
And trod the paths of sin.

My sentence sure it must he just,
For the commandment says,
Thou shalt not steal; thou never must—
Thou'lt fare as thou obeys.

The law of GOD is strict against
All such enormous crimes ;
And sure these laws they do-extend
To men of different crimes.

Tormenting thoughts oppress my heart,
While I think on my ways ;
More piercing they're than sharped darts,
That have cut short my days.

And sure the vengeance it will come,
And on my head will fall,
Unless that GOD'S own holy Son
Deliver me from thrali,

O therefore holy Jesus come
And shield me from the wrath,
That from thy Father forth is gone,
To crush us unto death.


O therefore holy Son of GOD,
Do thou my soul relieve,
From GOD'S wrath and afflicting rod,
That now my soul doth grieve.

On thy redemption I depend;
O cast me not away ;
But shield my soul, and me defend
Against the evil day.

And then of death's devouring pangs
I will not be afraid ;
When thou by thine own righteous laws
My righteousness hast made,



Good Christians all of every kind,
Who hear of my sad fate,
Repent and sanctify your rnind
Before it is too late.

For if you suffer passions strong
To triumph over you,
They'll hurry you to hell amongst
The lost and guilty crew.

Who've trampled on GOD'S holy laws,
And cast his precepts all behind,
For wickedness to blindness draws,
And blindness leads astray the blind.



Join prayers with me, good Christians all,
For the salvation of my soul,
That I may never go to dwell
In darkness black and foul.

Remember, Lord, how short a time,
On earth I've to remain,
And when I suffer for my crime,
May death to me be gain.


O let the prisoner's sighs ascend,
Before thy throne on high,
Likewise from death their souls defend,
That are condemned to die.



O then give ear to what I say,
Seek GOD to be your guide ;
Resort not with bad company,
And truth keep on your side.

So that with you it may be well,
When you resign your breath,
And may with saints and angels dwell,
Free from the second death.

Now to conclude, O Lord my God,
I humbly do thee pray,
When that the path of death I've trod,
Thou'lt take my spirit away.

Good people all think on my fate,
Do not go in my ways !
Adieu to every worldly thing,
And so I end my days.

Edinburgh:--Printed for William Henry, Price One Penny.A Full and  Particular Account of Robert McKinlay, William
Buchanan, Robert Hunter Guthrie, and Alexander Forbes,
who were Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 3d No
vember, 1819, for housebreaking and theft.

This day were executed, pursutant to their sen-
tences, Robert M'Kinlay, Wm. Buchanan, Robert
Hunter Guthrie, and Alexander Forbes, convicted
of housebreaking and  theft.

Robert McKinlay and William Buchanan, con-
victed, at the last Circuit Court, of breaking into
Bothwell Castle, on the 5th May last, the residence
of the Right Honourable Lord Douglas, and steal-
ing therefrom a gold watch, a silver sneff-box, a
 silver spoon, a silver candlestick, a silver bread-
toaster and several articles of wearing apparel.
'There were  several charges against McKinlay at
the time of his apprehension, for housebreaking
and robbery; one for breaking into a Gentleman's
house in Moore Place, breaking into Dr. Speirs'
house in Greenock, a shop at Linlithgow, Dal-
beth House, a Cotton Mill at Bridgeton, and Both-
well Castle. The last act which he committed,
and for which he this day surrendered up his life,
was perpetrated, in the most daring manner. From
the evidence of a Gentleman who slept in the
Castle on the night of the robbery, it was supposed
that they Lad entered the house by forcing up a
window, and actually entered the room where his
Lordship was asleep, and carried off the above
valuable articles.   In the address book at the gate
they described themselves, the one as coming from
London, the other from Birmingham. The officers
of Justice were immediately on the look-out,
when Cameron, the Police Officer, apprehended 
Buchanan on the 10th May; and he soon after,
along with Calder, apprehended McKinlay in the
Green asleep, when they  found  his Lordship's
neckcloth about his neck, and some of the other
articles in his possession.

M Kinlay was a native of Glasgow, about 24 years
of age, by trade a cotton-spinner, but had long
given up the sober pursuits of industry, for the
more dangerous way of living by preying on the
property of the  public.

Buchanan was also a native of this city, and was
only about 20 years of age; he had never been bred
to any regular employment, being of a very unset-
tled disposition, and much addicted to pilfering.
He had before been twelve months in Bridewell
for stealing yarn off a barrow on the streets. His
Lordship used his inrluence to get their lives sav-
ed, but without effect.

Robert Hunter Guthrie  and Alexander Forbes,
convicted of breaking into the house of Alexander
McLaren, Kilmarnock, on the 12th May last, and
stealing therefrom a silver watch, five shirts, two
pairs of shoes, a light Marstiles vest, beef ham
jelly, cakes, two pieces muslin, 16 spindles yarn
&c. In two days after, they were met by Robert
Brown (late of the horse patrole) near Barrhead,
Renfrewshire, when he immediately gave chace,
and  with the assistance of a ploughman, apprehend-
ed them, when he found some the stolen articles
in their possession. Upon Brown's evidence, and
that of several other witnesses  they were found
guilty, and on receiving sentence of death, Guthrie
immediately said, "My Lord, the sentence is very
hard-I had nothing to do with the tundles-I
bought the hat and paid for it, as my fellow pri-
soner knows." Although the above unhappy
criminals were both young men, neither of them
being above 22 years of age, yet their names have
long been enrolled in the criminal records of their
country. Guthrie at the Spring Circuit of 1818,
was tried for breaking into a store-room in Paisley,
but the libel was found not proven, and he was
immediately liberated; at the following Circuit he
was again charged with breaking into a soap-work   
in Paisley and stealing  a considerable quantity of
soap, but he was remitted by the Court back to the
Sheriff of Renfrewshire, when after trial he was
sentenced to be banished the County. He was a
native of Paisley, and by trade a wright.

Forbes was a native of this city, of honost indus-
trious parents, to whom he has been the cause of
much pain by his misconduct. He was by trade a
calcuderer, but he had long neglected his business,
and went about committing depredations on the
public. He has often been in the hands of the
Police and suffered various imprisonments. In
1817 he was con/ill/ed in Paisley Jail on a charge of
robbery, but he, along with others found means to
break the prison, and escaped. He soon after was
observed in the Gallowgate by a person who was
on the search for him, who immediately pursued,
but he leaped into the burn at the Spoutmouth, and
running up a close dealing to the High Street,
effected his escape in Wallace Court. He now,
along with his unfortunate companion went about
the country committing various depredations until
unerring Justice  overtook them, and put an end to
their crimes with their lives. Considerable exer-
tion was made to have their sentence com/ill/ed,
but failed.

The melancholy scene we have this day witness-
ed must have the effect of touching with anguish,
the heart of every friend of humanity__every lover
of our species; four young men, (a sight never be-
fore witnessed in Glasgow) suffering   ignominiously,
shamefully, and ingloriously on the scaffold, for
breaking the laws of their country, whom, had the
ability they evidently possessed, been directed
aright, might have been in honour in themselves,
a happiness to their families, and made them useful
members of society. The praise-worthy humanity
displayed at the last Spring Circuit has not had
the benevolent effect intended by the law author-
ities, hut it is to be hoped that the just, tho' heart-
rending spectacle of this day, will make a lasting
impression on the minds of the spectators, and have
a proper effect on all these unthinking persons who
prey on the property of their neighbours, for they
may rest assured, thas however fortunate they may
be for a time, the powerful arm  of the law will imm-
ediately reach, and punish them according to their
deserts.   

Printed for John Muir.              An account of the last moments
of William Thomson, who was
executed at Dalkeith on Thurs-
day last with the information of
Thomson & Fram of the murder
of Ramsay of Ramsay, a collier at

Cowpits two. years ago whereby two
Theives  named Salmon and Merrilees are
a apprehended.

Extracted  from the Edinburgh Weekly  Chronicle.
           of Wednesday March  7,   1827.

The unfortun te man  spent the morning  in devo-
tion, and exhibited a degree of firmness and resigna-
tion altogether inconceivable  by any but.   those who
have been accustome | to see persons under  such   aw-
ful circumstances.    At twelve o'clock, when the Ma-
gistrates entered, he was in the chapel   of the prison,
engaged in singing a psalm ;   after   which,   Mr  Por-
teous offered up a prayer for him.     He  now partook
of a little port wine, conversed, in  she  most,  Familiar
and cheerful  manner with the   clergymen in attend-
ance, and  from  the continued  smile on   his counte-
nance, seemed to be the only person present who ap-
peared totally unaffected by horror at his impending
fate ; on the contrary, he expressed himself prepared
to meet it with the most perfect resignation.    He had
since his condemnation expressed his thankfulness
the laws of his country had overtaken   him,  whereby 
he had been afforded time for reflection   and   repent
ance, instead of being cut off in his sins, in that career
of guilt which he had  launched into.    About half-
past twelve, four carriage - having  drawn   up   within
the prison court, the criminal shook hands  with such
of the attendants as were to remain, and was conduc-
ted to one of the carriages in  the court; Mr  Sheriff
Duff, who had also been present in the chapel of the
Jail, two of the city   Magistrates,  and  several   other
official persons, went into the other Carriage, when the
whole drove off by the Regent Road.

     At ten minutes past two, the Sheriff's officers rode
briskly up to the place of execution,  in   front  of the
Jail, and three coaches followed, in   which   were the
Sheriff, the Clergymen, and the unfortunate victim
to the injured laws of his country,     He ascended the
scaffold  with   a  firm  step, and   during  the  religious
ceremonies, maintained a   composure  truly astonish-
ing, when his known previous ignorance is considered.
His desire  for religious knowledge was remarkably
great  in one whose hours were numbered by the laws
                                                                                                        .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
of his country, he having learned to read, and to com-
prehend the divine precepts of Scriptures, beyond
what could have been expected, in such circumstances.
The unfortunate man joined in the prayers and hymns
wtth every apparent sincerity of devotion, and was at
last placed on the fatal drop, all the. bystanders un-
covering; nearly five minutes elapsed before the un-
happy man dropped the, signal, which closed his
earthly career for ever, with apparently little pain.

The three criminals, since their condemnation for
the robbery of Mr Dickson, nave been assisted in
their devotions by Dr Lee, Mr Porteus, chaplain to
the Jail, and a benevolent gentleman of this city,
well known for his pious attentions to persons under
sentence of the law. This latter individual, Mr Por-
tious, and Mr Clarke of the Canongate Chapel, who
officiated for Dr Lee, at present from home, attended
William Thomson in the Jail during the forenoon of
Thursday, and accompanied him to the place of exe-
cution.                                                                       

An unfounded report is abroad, that Thomson had
confessed being concerned in   the murder  of a man,
Ramsay Ingles, pensioner and banksman   at  Cowpits
Colliery, who   mysteriously   disappeared   about  two
years ago.     But his colleagues in the crime for which
he suffered, James Thomson and   John   From,   have
given information of the murder of Inglis, which, by
their account, was perpetrated on   the highway, near
to Cowpits;and, in consequence, two thieves, named
.  Salmon and   Merrilees,  have   been  apprehended on

suspicion of the murder.    A Full and Particular Account of the Trial of RO-
BERT MURRAY, who was tried yesterday, the
28th Feburary, 1825, before the High Conrt of
Justiciary, for the Robbery of the Stirling Mail, on
the evening of the 18th December last, at Kirklis-
ton when Cash to the amount of upwards of £7000
Sterling was abstracted !

ON Monday the 28th February, 1825, ROBERT MURRAY,
sometime in the Naval Service of the Honourable East India
Company, was put to the bar, accused of being art and part con-
cerned in the robbery of the Stirling Mail, on the evening of the
18th December last, at or near the house of Mathew Linn, post-
master, Kirkliston, on the road leading from Linlithgow to Edin-
burgh, and with stealing therefrom three parcels of banker's or
bank notes,—one of these having been sent from the branch of the
Bank of Scotland, Stirling, to the office in Edinburgh, and contain-
ed notes to the value of £2434. 17s.—-2d, a parcel from Crieff to
the Commercial Banking Company, amounting to £2360,—-and,
3d, a parcel to the Leith Banking Company, from Callander,
amounting to £ 2254. 10s. The prisoner plead Not Guilty.

A jury being sworn, the several bank agents stated their having
made up the parcels of notes, which were delivered to the Guard
of the Mail Coach, at Stirling, William Hume was then called, who
deponed, that he was Guard of the Stirling Mail on the 18th De-
cember last, was about eight years in that situation ; was in the
practice of conveying notes from Stirling to Edinburgh, which was
a private transaction between the banks and him. After stating
that he got three different parcels containing notes to be delivered in
Edinburgh, which were put first into a sack, and placed in the Mail
box, on the road, two miles on this side of Falkirk, he then goes on
to say, that he unlocked the box at Winchburgh, without stopping
and put the Linlithgow bag, whieh he had previously kept in the
sword case, into the Mail sack. He then felt with his feet that the.
money parcels were still safe. He did not then lock the Mail box,
that was a neglect on his part. No person ever left the front of the
eoach to come to the back part till it reached Kirkliston. An out-
side passenger was taken up at Linlithgow, who sat along side the
coachman. The coach stopped at Kirkliston, opposite the door of
Matthew Linn. the postmaster ; it was very dark when the coach
arrived there, at 40 minutes after 6 o'clock ; witness dismounted,
and went into the Post Office for the bag, leaving the Mail box un-
locked ; he had no occasion to open the box there, not did he do so
till he reached Corstorphine.....He was not more than one and a
half minute in the house at Kirkliston, but he afterwards  assisted
in putting, the leading horses to the  coach.    The total amount  of
the whole stop, did not exceed four or five minutes including the 
time he was in the house.

The Mail Box continued unlocked till he arrived at Constorphine,
where he got a bag to take to Edinburgh. He then opened the
box to put in this bag—and he discovered that the money parcels
were gone, having been taken out at Kirkliston. He never men-
tioned the loss to any one till he arrived at the Post Office ; there
he met the persons from the banks. Two inside passengers and
one outside outside were set down at Frederick Street; one of the
insides was the passenger who was out of the coach at Kirkliston—
and the outside one, was he who was taken up at Linlithgow. He
let them go at once, although he was aware of the robbery—from
being in a state of alarm and confusion, he did not well know
what he was doing. Did not, however, suspect any of these pas-
sengers, for one had no luggage whatever, and the other only a
small bag which lay on the fore boot, not near so large as tho par-
cels. When the coach arrived at the Post Office he found the usual
persons waiting to receive the money for the banks, and told them
that it was all gone. He then gave information as to when he
thought the robbery had been effected ; and returned to Kirkliston,
with some of the bank people where they received some intelligence.
He was quite certain that he felt the money parcels in the coach at
Winchburgh, and that he did not miss them till he arrived at Cor-
storphine. He had no participation directly or indirectly in the
theft, nor did he know by whom tho robbery was effected.

A great many other witnesses were then examined, and the pri-
soner's declaration read, in which he stated, that he was 39 years
of age, was born in London, and lived on the interest of his money.
After which the Jury were addressed by the Counsel for and against
the prosecution, as well as by the Lord Justice Clerk, when they,
without leaving their box, returned a viua voce verdict, finding the
Libel Not Proven, on which he was dismissed from the bar, He
was again taken on a new warrant, in the Parliament Square.

Printed for Robert M'Millan PRICE ONE PENNY.

                                      THE   LAST   SPEECH,

                               

CONFESSlON, AND DYING DECLARATION, OF

RICHARD  BROXUP,          

Who was executed at the West End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the
11th of February, 1801, for the Crimes of picking Locks and Theft.

I RICHARD BROXUP, aged thirty-three
years, born of respectable Parents, in
the county of York, to whose counsel and
example,  (with shame I acknowledge) I
paid not that attention I ought.

I would not have left one word, in this
form, behind me, were it not for two
things.

The first of which is - That I may give
 glory to God, who alone is able to bring
good out of evil; who hath, in his mer-
cy, rendered the crimes for which I suf-
fer, with my suffering, instrumental in
bringing me to the knowledge of the truth
of that Gospel, which, through the all
 powerful operation of his holy Spirit, is
preached to save sinners, (even the chief).
So that, while, with grief, shame, and
sorrow, I acknowledge the crimes for which
I suffer, I thank God that even I came into
this prison, where I have heard the glad
tidings of great joy ; and, by the mercy
of God, have been enabled to set my seal,
as a dying man, to the truth thereof, fully
persuaded, in my own mind, that Christ
is the end of the law for righteousness to
every one that believeth.

While I thank Almighty God for his
mercy to me, I would be ungrateful did
 I not acknowledge the kindness of the
Reverend Doctor BROWN, who, in his of-
ficial character, did me all the service in
his power.

In a special manner I am in duty bound
to acknowledge the kind visits of Messrs.
HALDANE, AITKMAN, and DONALDSON,
with some of the Members of Mr. Donald-
son's congregation, who have been the
means of great good to me, all of whom
may the Lord abundantly reward.

I an not insensible of the kind indul-
gence of the Honourable the Magistrates
of this city, in allowing me - to be visited
by so many godly and well disposed per-

sons; also with the goodness and kind in-
dulgence of the keepers of the prison.

The second thing that moved me to
make this declaration was - To prevent,
what I feared, any person publishing any
thing as my Speech, which I would abhor
to have said.

I conclude with the hope, that my pub-
lic suffering for breaking the laws of God
and man, will have the happy effect of
preventing others from committing the
same, or like crimes.

And I earnestly hope, that all those who
shall see or hear of my untimely end, will
take warning and avoid the paths which
have brought me to be a public spectacle
to the world, especially those who are or
may be addicted to such crimes as I have
been guilty of ; and I beg to let all such
know, that though they may escape the
laws of their country they cannot escape
the eyes of an all-seeing God, who sooner
or later will bring the most hidden trans-
actions to light; and may He, of his in-
finite goodness, shew you the error of
your ways, and bring you back to the
paths of virtue and honesty, is the prayer
of a dying man, which may the God of
all grace hear. - AMEN.

RICHARD BROXUP.

J. GULLEN,             Witnesses.

ARCHD. DUNBAR, 

*** I hope none will be so unkind as
to make the cause of my death a ground
of reproach to my beloved wife, or inno-
cent children,

He behaved at the place of execution
in every respect becoming his awful situa-
tion, and met his fate with firmness.

Edinburgh - Printed by J. Morren, and
re-printed by Thomas Duncan - at whose
Printing-office, third close above St. An-
drew's Street, Saltmarket, Glasgow, may
be had, price Six pence, a Concise History
of the Late REBELLION- in IRELAND.Lamentation

OF

GEORGE GIECHRiST,. who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on
Wednesday morning the 3d. August instant for the Robbing of
the Prince Regent Coach, between Edinburgh and Glasgow, on
the 24th. of March 1831.

O all who hear of my sad state,
Oh pity my dire case,
Doomed to an ignominious fate,
Deprived of human bhss.

O if my days were to begin,
I to the world would shew,
That I would shun the paths of sin,
Wherein destroyers go.

But ah ! these days are past and gone !
In fetters here I lye,
Confined in a dungeon strong,
By men condemned to die.

Because GOD'S law I did transgress,
And would not walk therein :
But fled the paths of righteousness,
And trod the paths of sin.

My sentence sure it must be just,
For the commandment says,
Thou shalt not steal ; thou never must—
Thou'lt fare as thou obeys.

The law of GOD is strict against
All such enormous crimes ;
And sure these laws they do extend
To men of different crimes.

Tormenting thoughts oppress my heart,
While I think on my ways ;
More piercing they're than sharped darts,
That have cut short my days.

And sure the vengeance it will come,
And on my head will fall,                
Unless that GOD'S own holy Son          
Deliver me from thrall.                     

O therefore holy Jesus come                
And shield me from the wrath,
That from thy Father forth is gone,
To crush us into death.

O therefore holy Son of GOD,              
Do thou my soul relieve,
From GOD'S wrath and affiicting rod,
That now my soul doth grieve.

On thy redemption I depend;
O cast me not away ;
But shield my soul, and me defend
Against the evil day.                        

And then of death's devouring pangs
    I will not be afraid ;
 When thou by thine own righteous laws
    My righteousness hast made,

Good Christians all of every kind,
    Who hear of my sad fate,
Repent and sanctify your mind,
Before it is too late.

Remember, Lord, how short a time,
    On earth I've to remain,
And when I suffer for my crime,
   May death to me be gain.



O let the prisoner's sighs ascend,
Before thy throne on high,
Likewise frome death their souls defend,
    That are condemned to die.

So that with you it may be well,
    When you resign your breath,
And may with saints and angels  dwell,
    Free from the second death.



O then give ea  to what I say,
    Seek GOD to be your guide :
Resort not with bad company,
    And truth keep on your side.

New to conclude, O Lord  my God,
    I humbly do thee pray
When that the path of death I've trod.
    Thou'lt take my spirit away.



Good people all think on my fate,
    Do not go in my ways !
Adieu to every worldly thing.
    And so I end my days.

For if you suffer passions strong,
To triumph over you,
They'll hurry you to hell amongst,
The lost and guilty crew.

Who've trampled on GoD'S holy laws,
And cast his precepts all behind,
For wickedness to blindness draws,
And blindness leads astray the blind.

Join prayers with me, good chirstians all
For the salvation of my soul,
That I may never go to dwell,
In darkness black and foul.

Edinburgh :—Printed for George Craig, Price One Penny.Lamentation

OF

PETER HENDERSON, late Letter Stamper in the Gen-
eral Post Office, Edinburgh, and who is to be Executed
here on Wednesday the 16th July, 1828, for abstracting
Money from and Destroying the Letters.

O all who hear of my sad state,
Oh pity my dire case,
Doomed to an ignominious fate,
Deprived of human bliss.

O if my days were to begin,
I to the world would shew,
That I would shun the paths of sin,
Wherein destroyers go.

But ah ! these days are past and gone !
In fetters here I lye,
Confined in a dungeon strong,
By men condemned to die.

Because GOD'S law I did transgress,
And would not walk therein:
But fled the paths of righteousness,
And trod the paths of sin.

My sentence sure it must he just,
For the commandment says,
Thou shah not steal; thou never must—
Thou'lt fare as thou obeys.

The law of GOD is strict against
All such enormous crimes ;
And sure these laws they do extend
To men of different crimes.

Tormenting thoughts oppress my heart,
While I think on my ways ;
More piercing they're than sharped darts,
That have cut short my days.

And sure the vengeance it will come,
And on my head will fall,
Unless that GOD'S own holy Son
Deliver me from thrall,

O therefore holy Jesus come
And shield me from the wrath,
That from thy Father forth is gone,
To crush us unto death,

O therefore holy Son ,of GOD,
Do thou my soul relieve,
From  GOD's wrath and afflicting rod,
that now my soul cloth grieve.

On they redemption I depend;
O cast me not away;
But shield my soul, and me defend
Against die evil day.

And then of death's devouring pangs
I will not be afraid ;                          
When thou by thine own righteous laws
My righteousness hast made,

Good Christians all of every kind,
Who hear of my sad fate,       
Repent and sanctify your mind
Before it is too late.

For if you suffer passions strong          
To triumph over you,
They'll hurry you to hell amongst
Tho lost and guilty crew.

Who've trampled on GOD'S holy laws,
And cast his precepts all behind,
For wickedness to blindness draws,      
And blindness leads astray the blind.

Join prayers with me, good christians all,
For.the.salvation: of my soul,
That I may never go to dwell
In darkness black and foul.

Remember, Lord, how short a time,
On earth I've to remain,
And when I suffer for my crime,
May death to me be gain.

O let the prisoner's sighs ascend,
Before thy throne on high,
Likewise from death their souls defend,
That are condemned to die,



O  then give ear to what I say,
Seek GOD to be your guide ;
Resort not with bad company,
And truth keep on your side.

 So that with you it may be well,
When you resign your breath,
And may with saints and angels dwell.
Free from the second death.

Now to conclude, O Lord my God,
I humbly do thee pray,
 When that the path of death I've trod,
Thou'lt take my spirit away.



| Good people all think on my fate,
    Do not go in my ways !
 Adieu to every worldly thing,
     And so I end my days.

Edinburgh :-Printed for William Henry, Price One Penny,LAMENTATIONS.

An account taken from this days Star,
of the affecting behaviour and sorrowful
situation of Thomas Black, who is to be
Executed next Wednesday, when  the
respite for Reid was announced to him.
A1so, the Sorrowful Lamentation on
this awful occasion.

The following paragraph relative to Thomas Black who is
to Executed here on Wednesday first the 10th inst. for house-
breaking and theft, is copied from this day's (Friday 5th Dec.)
Edinburgh Star.

" The unfortunate young   man   Black, who is now under
sentence of  Death in the jail of  this city, for housebreaking, 
evinces, we understand,a most becoming sense of his melan-
choly situation, as well as, the deepest contrition for his dissolute
habits of life.    A few weeks ago he requested to be indulged
with a separate cell, as the society of his companions in misery
led to conversations on their former way of life, which served
to interrupt his more serious reflections, and to divert his mind
from those important considerations  which his awful situation
whs so powerfully calculated to excite.    A respite for his fel-
low-sufferer who is somewhat younger,  was received last week.
It can be no impeachment of the generosity of Black, or of the
sincerity of his repentance, to find that this act of mercy to an-   
other, awakened in him all that love of life which had seeming-
ly been extinguished for ever. He sunk into a state of rhe
most heartless despondency for some time, and he could neither
think of the present nor of the future without the most agoniz-
ing feelings. During 2 days he scarcely tasted food. His mind,
however, is now restored to its wonted tranquillity, and he ex-
presses himself with calmness and resignation on the subject of
his approaching fate, an event to which he looks forward as
inevitable.

Y c heedless youths who persevere,
Be warn'd and quit your mad career
 View me, the victim of my crime,
Cut off before I've reach'd my prime.

By evil counsel drawn away,                        
My wicked course I ran each day,
Till justice caught me in my race,
And brought me to this awful place.

My crimes and sins I now lament,
My youthful days and time mis-srent,
O may each one who views my end,
Be taught their time aright to spend.

The haunts of dissipation shun,
Avoid the wiles of those who run,
With wicked women, false though fair,
Who leave you cloth'd with black despair.
Farewell my friends, my comrades all,.
For you my tears in torrents fall,
Forgive, th' sffusions of my love,
We part in hope to meet above.

A few more hours, the struggle's past,
Life's curtain on this world is cast,
And then our spirits will soar above,
Where all is joy, and peace, and love.ROBBERY

OF THE

Mail Coach.

The whole particulars of that daring
Robbery, which was committed on
the Stirling Mail, on Saturday last
with an account of the apprehension

of one of the  Robbers,

On Seturday evening, 18th Dec. the Stirling Mail   Coach
was robbed to  a  very extensive amount,  while .changing
horses at the village of Kirkliston.    A gig. with two men in
it had been   been observed   to  follow the  Coach   a considerable
way before its ariivaj at   Kirkliston, where both stopped  at
the Same inn.    The  men came out of the gig. and after one
of them had given & boy fourpance   to   hold the  reins of the
horse, they qoth wen( into the house,   while the driver and
guard were either inside the house or  attending to the  Post
Office duties,    A pussenger  in the Coach was   observed by
a women at this time  deseend   into   the boot, which   the
guard had left unlocked ; and this person did   not afterwards
make his appearance    The   man   who   gave    the boy the
fourpence also disappeared,   while   his companion mounted
the gig, and drove of rapidly,    It was then   discovered   that
a bag containing  three   parcels of  Bank notes,   which had
been  forwarded    by   the   ageut   of    the   Leith Bank   at
Callender, of the Leith Bank at   Stirling,  and   of the Com-
mercial Bank  at Crief. and amounting  in   all to about ten
thousand pounds, was abstracted.     It is next to  self-evident
that the robbery was contrived and executed  by the passen-
ger and the two   persons   in    the gig,   and that they again
met together on the road leading to the Queensferry, as three
men of the same deseription did arrive that  night at New-
mills,   whence two   men proceeded to Edinburgh in a post
chain, and   the other   went westward.    It remains to be
noticed   that early on   Saturday,   a   man of the name of
Mvrray,  who  has   been hanging loose upon   the town   for
some time whose history is unknuwn., hired  a gig from
Smith's   Stables in   Rose   Street,  and  this person    late on
Saturday evening called on Mr Smith, and after communi.-
ciiting to him  that  the horse and gig had been upset in a
ditch  on  the road from'Kilkliston  to Queensfetry, desired
to   know what it would cost to  repair   the damage.         Mr
Smith estimated the damage at L48, which Murray paid him
is ten pound band notes of the Bank of Scotland.    The horse
and  gig   were actually   found  in  the  ditch,  and  from   the.
marks of feet about the place,   it was evident that   three men
.had been engaged to extricate them.

It has been ascertained that Murray spent the evening
along with others in a noted Brothel at the foot of North
St David Street, kept by a man who has been taken into
custody ; and through him the police came to learn that
Murray did not leove Edinburgh till 11 o'clock on Sunday
morning, when he set off in a post.chaise for .London by the
eastern road. Sergeant Eewis Stewart of the police, accom-
panied by a clerk of one of the banks, was immediately dis-
patched in that direction after him , while messengors and
officer,. were sent off in parsuit in almost every other direc-
tion. A letter was received at the police establishment yes-
terday from Stewart, intimating that a person answering
Murray's description bad been overtaken and apprehended
at Therik in Yorkshire, where, being in an infirm state of
health, he had stopped to take some repose ; and that, L60
in Scotch notes were found upon him. He was expected to.
arrive last  night in custody.  The guard of the coach is in
confinement.                        Sentence.

An account of the Trial and Sentence
of Charles Maclaren, Thos, Grierson,
and James M'Ewan,3 boys, the oldest
only 15 years of age, and all belonging
to Edinburgh, for house-breaking and
robbery, in Gray Street and George's
Square, and who are to be Executed in
Edinburgh, on the l2th of Feb, next.

 Charles Maclarn, Thomas Grierson, and James M'Ewan were
this day Saturday 11 th Jan. tried for having on Sunday night the
8th of Sept. entered the house of Thomos Riddell, Esq. W. S. in
Grey Street, Newington, and stole 18 silver forks, 31 silver table
spoous 16 desert ditto, a soup laddle, 18 tea spoons, a sugar bason,
a number of plated candlesticks. a gold snuff box, a pair of pistole,
besides a variety of other Articles...,Further, with entering, on the
11th  of same month, the house of Lieut-Colonel Monro, of the
Honourable East India Company's service, situated in George's
Square, and etealing a silver tea-pot, sugar tongs, &c. besides se-
veral picees of French Lace, three Silk Gowns, and a silk Searf.
The pannels were indicated as habit and repuce thieves, M'Lerets
having been eight, Grierson sis times, and M'Ewan twice, in Bride-
well; the pannels pled not guilty.

The declarations were then read to the Jury.

Maclaren's admitted that he had gone along with the others on
the Sunday previous to breaking into Mr Riddel's house, and as-
certained the practicability of its being entered. The robbery at
Colonel Monro's house was also acknowledged.

Thomas Riddel Esq. W. S. resided in Gray Street, Newington
went to the country in July last, leaving his house under the charge
of an old servant, who had liberty from him to go and see her
friends for a few days while the family was absent, provided she
secured the property. There was a considerable quantity of plate
in the house, which witness had put into a box which was locked.
Received information on the llth September that his house had
been broke into, he in consequence came to town next day, and
found his house in great confusion. His servant and 2 Police
officers were in it. All the lockfast places had been forced open,
and the floor was covered with linen, &c. The whole plate, with
the exception of 2 teapots, and some trifling articles which were
found in a cellar afterwards, was carried away ; also a gold watch,
and snuff box. The value of the articles stolen, no part of which
has been recovered, might amount to between L.120 and L.130.

Catherine Paton, servant of Mr Riddel, deponed as to having shut up
the house on the 4th September, and having secured it properly, leaving
the key with Mr Whigham. When she returned on the 10th of that
month, she found the doors all fast, but  observed the dining room windows
all marked, as if by hands the catches unscrewed, and the shutters off a
pane of glass appeared newly put in, the potty being soft, and it fell cut
on being touched. The witness then spoke as to finding the locks btoke.
The pistol bags being found on the floor empty—that the chest of a
fellow servant had also been opened, and a silk shawl taken away identi-
fed one now shown her, as being the one which had formerly been in
that chest.         

One of the witneses, John Mackenzie, a publican in the Canongate, was ordered
to be imprisoned three weeks, for gross prevarication.

M'Ewan was recommended te mercy on account of his youth,

The Jury unanimouspy found the pannals guilty, and the Lord justice
Clerk after concluding a most pathetic address passed sentence of death
ordaining the pannals to be executed on Wednesday the 12th of February
next.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Glass, printer, south Niddry Street.Seven Men

Sentenced to Die.

An account of the notorious WILLIAM PROBERT, and
Six other unfortunate Men, who are all to be Executed in
London on Monday Morning next, for the crimes of Horse-
Stealing and Forgery. Probert was the companion of the late-
notorious Thurtell and Hunt, the horrid Murderers, the for-
mer of whom was also executed, for the bloody murder of their.
companion, William Weare, in a lonely part of the country.

Tuesday the 14th June, the Recorder of London made a report to the King in
Council, of the prisoners remaining under sentence of death in the gaol of Newgate,
who were convicted at the two last Old Bailey Sessions, namely—

William Probert aged 33, and Wm. Sargeant alias Thos. Baker 30, of horse-Steal.
ing, Henry Goff 18; James Corbet 17; Stephen Medwinter 14; Edw. David Dunn
17; James Golf 21; Edward Crawley 17; of burglary. Henry Williams 27; Frederick
Morgan 17; Elizabeth Doyle 21; Henry Brown.23; and John Bowers 27; of stealing
in a dwelling house to the amount of 40s. and upwards. John Thompson 17, of
highway rubberv; and Wm. August 23, of cutting and maiming. Henry Morgan 23,
of housebreaking; Jacob Myers 15, highway robbery. Wm. Brooks 25; Wm. Ben-
yon 41; James Harper 30; James Hill 18, horse stealing. James Broom 17; Wilfred
Barnett 19; Joseph Saint 13; Mary Beresford 28, Elizabeth Powell 23; Thos. Her-
ring 24; John Wilcox 16; Henry Palmer 23; and Peter Carrel alias Geo. Day 18;
stealing in a dwelling house to the amount of 40s. and upwards. Daniel Morgan
18; James Brown 15; John Turpin alias Tuck 21; Wm. Royston 15; Joseph Flowers
19; John Smith 23; and Wm. Mills 22, burglary.

His Majesty was graciously pleased to respite, during his Royal pleasure, all the
above named convicts, excepting William Probert, William Sargeant, James  Har-
per, John Smith, Edward David Dunn, James Goff, upon whom the law is left to
take its course, and they are ordered for Execution on Monday next.

Probert was found guilty of stealing a mare, value L.25, on the 10th Feb. last,
the property of William Meredith, (a relation of his own) in the county of Glouces-
ter, and which he took to London and sold.                                                  

It will be recollected that Probert was the companion and friend of John Thurtell
and Henry Hunt, who were all concerned in the savage and bloody murder of one
of their bottle  friends, whom they decoyed out of London into a lonely part of the
country, and brutally murdered him, which created a great sensation throughout the
whole country at  the  time, and for which Thurtell was executed, and Hunt banish-
ed for life, in consequence of his .confession where the dead body was concealed; but
Probert having been admitted a witness against his companions,he, for a time escap-
ed that fate which his crimes so justly deserved, and which now most assuredly a-
waits him on Monday morning next.

Ever since his dismissal from custody he had been wandering about the country,
and even in the remotest village he was spurned as an outcast from society, and
hunted down like a wild beast of the forest. He and his wife were both on the point
of starvation, and without a friend to assist them, which drove him to commit the
crime  which seated his doom.

On learning his fate he was greatly surprised, as he always expected that his life
would have been spared, and immediately sat down to write letters to his wife and
aged mother.

Glasgow—Printed by John Muir.The Life of JAMES -REVEL,

THE UNHAPPY   TRANSPORT.

Giving a Sorrowful account of his fourteen years' transportation to Botany Bay, 
New South Wdles, in February, 1808, and his return home to London, in March
1 st, 1823, with a serious word of advice to all young men and women.

MY loving countrymen pray lend an ear
Unto these relationa I bring you to hear,
My sufferings at large I will unfold;
Though strange, it is as true as ever was told.
Of honest parents I did come but poor,
Who besides me had children never more;
Near Temple Bar was born their darling son,
And in virtue's path for sometime I did run.
My parents in me took great delight,
And sent me to school to read and write,
And cast accounts likewise, as it appears,
Until that I was aged thirteen years.
Unto a tin-man I was an apprentice bound,
My master and my mistress good I found,
Who liked me well, my business I did mind.
From me my parents comfort then did find.
Near to Moor-fields my master he did dwell,
Where into wicked company there I fell;
To wickedness I quickly was inclined,
So soon it tainted on my youthful minds
With them a thieving I did go,
But little did my tender parents know
I followed courses which were most wild ;
My absence grieved them being their darling child.
Strong liquors banished the thoughts of fear,
But justice stopt us in our wild career.
One night was taken up one of our gang,
Who five impeached, and three of them were hung
I was one of the five that was tried and cast.
Yet transportation I did get at last
A just reward for all my actions base,
But justice overtook meat the last,
Invain I grieved, in vain my   parents weep.
For I was quickly sent on board of ship :
With melting kisses, and with heavy heart,
From my tender parents I then did part.
In a few days we left the river quite,
And in a short time of land we lost the sight
The captain and the sailors used us well,
But kept us under lest we should rebel.
Five of our number on the passage died,
Who buried were on the ocean wide.
After sailing seven months or more,
We at Port Jackson were all put on shore :
Then to refresh us we were all made clean,
That to our buyers we might better seem,
The things were given that to each did belong,
And they that had clean linen put it on;
The women separated from us stood,
As well as we to be of them void.
In a short time some men up to us came,
And ask'd our trades, and others ask'd our names
Some eyed our limbs, and turn'd us round,
Examined us like horses, to see if we were sound.
" What trade my lad ?"—-said one of them to me,
"A  tin-man, sir "    ' that will not do for me"
At length a grim old gentleman up to me came,
He asked my trade, likewise my name,
I told him a tin-man was my trade,
Not eighteen years of age, I also said ;
To him I told the cause which brought me there,
That transported I was for fourteen-years;
And when he from me that did understand,
He bought me from the captrin out of hand.
Down to the harbour I was taken again,
On board of a ship bound in an iron chain,
Which I was forced to wear night and day,
And fear I from the sloop should run away;
And when the ship was loaded we were sent
A hundred miles up the river went.
The weather cold, and hard was my fare,
My lodgings on the deck both hard and bare.
At last to my new master's house I came,
In a large town New Caledonia by name ;
When my European clothes were taken from me,
Which I never after then could see,
A canvas shirt and trowsers they me gave,
A hop sack frock unto which I was a slave;
No shoes or stockings had I for to wear,
Nor hat nor cap, my head and feet went bare.
Distrest, I next to the field did go,              
Amongst tobacco plants to work with a hoe.

 At day-light in the morning our work begun.
And lasted till the setting of the sun;
And when our hard days work was done;
Away to the mill we must be gone
Until twelve or one o'clock at night a grinding corn,
And we must be up by day break in the morn,
And if we offer once to run away,
For every hour we must serve a day;
For every day a week....they are so severe—
For every week a month and for every month a year
At last it pleased God I sick did fall,
Yet no favour I received at all,
For I was forced to work while I could stand,
Or hold the hoe within my hand.
Down on my kpees the Lord I did implore,
To let me see my native land once more,
And thro' his gracious mercy my life I would amend
And be a comfort to my nearest friends.
The Lord had seen the grief that sprung my heart,
And his gracious mercy to me he did impart,
My health I got again 'twas all I then did want,
It pleased the Lord he to me such grace did grant,
That though in barbarous place, and in exile
I served him in fear, and many blessings I did feel
Now twelve years being past, and only two to stay
When death did my cruel master then call away.
But that was no relief to me at all,
For the widow would not her plantation sell,
At last a planter who, at Sidney town did dwell,
Came down to view it, and he liked it well;
He bought the negros who for life were slaves.
But no transported felons would he have,
So we were put like sheep, into a fold,
Unto the highest bidder to be sold,
A gentleman who seemed very grave,
Said unto me, " how long are you to slave?
" Not quite two years" I to him then replied.
" That is but very short, indeed !" he cried.
He said no more, but from me short did turn,
W hilst from my eyes the tears did trinkling run ;
I saw him to my overseer go,
But what he said to him I do not know.
Then straight to me he came again and said,
" No longer here remain, but go with me.
For I have bought you here this very day,
He said he would not use me as a slave,
But as a servant if I'd well behave,
And if I pleased him when my time expired.
He'd send me home again if I required.
My new master in a smooky town did dwell.
By trade a Cooper and he lived well
And if at any time he did ride out,
I with him rode the country round about,
At length my fourteen years expired quite,
Which filled my very soul with great delight,
To think no longer there I should remain,
But to Old England once return again.
My master unto me expressed much love.
And according to his promise he did prove ;
He got me a ship and I came home again.
With joy and comfort tho' I went with pain,
My father and my mother well I found,
To see me with joy they did abound ;
My mother over me did weep for joy,
My father cried once more I see my darling boy,
I told them all the dangers I came through,
Likewise my sickness and perils too.
Which filled their tender hearts with sad surprise,
Whilst melting tears ran trickling down their eyes.
My countrymen  take warning before it is too late,
Lest you may share my hard unhappy fate;
Though little crimes which you may have done,
Think of seven or fourteen years to come,
Forced from your home to go amongst negroes,
To work as a slave in different countries ;    
Young men and women take pains your lives all to amend
Take my advice as one that is your friend ;
Though but little about it any of you may care,
Hard is your lot if cnce you go there.

          Edinburgh—Printed for John Smith.





Trial & sentence

Of JAMES  DUNLOP,  of the Five   Alls Tavern,   Glasgow, and
JAMES HUNTER, for Stealing above 550 Pieces of Muslin form
a respectable Warehouse, and JAMES HARMER for Resetting
the Stolen  Goods.    The Trial took   place before the high
Court of Justiciary or Monday last, and occupied the Court
till two o'clock on Tuesday morning, when Dunlop and Har-
mer were found Guilty,  and sentence was immediately pas-
sed upon, them.                                         

Edinburgh, 8th December 1823.                                       

This day came on the trial JOHN  DUNLOP, of the live Alls Tavern, Glas.
gow, JAMES HUNTER,accused of stealing form the Warehouse of Mr Hutch.
ison, in Glasgow, about 38O pieces of muslin, and JAMES HARMER of resetting
the same or par thereof, were brought to the Bar,and pleaded Not Guilty.

JEAN BEATH, also included in the same criminal letters, was outlawed for
non-appearance.                                                                                                     

James Wilson, forman to Mr  Hutchison on often seen the prisoners Dunlop
and  Hunter in  the warehouse getting  goods out to singe.    They were always ac-
companed by boys.    In conseqence of  information received, witness  set  out for
Belfast, accompanied by two Police Officers , where  they found above 200 pieces of
stolen muslin which they brought  to Glasgow with them.                                

Mr. Hardie, superintendant of  police accompanied Mr. Hutchison to Dunlop's
house where they found a piece of  muslin in a press . Dunlop leaped out of the win-
dow and ran near a mile before he was apprehened.

Donald Frazer, police officer Glasgow searched Harmer's house in  August last,
where he found 4 unbleached, and 7 unbleached  pieces of muslin; witness also went
to Belfast where he apprehended Harmer, and brought him to Glasgow, along with
137 pieces of the muslins.                                                                              

James M'llroy, was in the service of Dunlop & Hun ter in Glasgow, last summer.
Dunlop, at his own house, opened hte pale for stealing the goods. The agreement
was, that witness was to steal the articles, and he would afterwards purchase
them from him. Cannot say how many pieces had been stolen. Went with him to
Hutch nson's manufactory for goods to be- singed. Witness held the bag into
which the pieces of muslin were put by Dunlop and Hunter and Dunlop were particu-
lar pieces put up in score for Hunter and Dunlop to take away in their turn. While
Hunter and Csrmichael held t he bag, Dunlop and witness put in the pieces, and
Dunlop and witness put in other pieces besides those which were laid aside for them.
Witness did so at Dunlop's desire, and was promised by him some money for a new
suit of clothes if he kept the circumstance secret. Witness was about three weeks
in the service, and this plan was laid the second night after he entered it. Does
not think that Hunter saw the pieces put into the bag which ought not to have been
put in. Witness was in the  practice of doing this every night; concealed it from
Hunter.    The bags were then taken to Dunlop's house by witness and  Hunter......
Dunlop and witness, after Hunter went away, tumbled out the goods, and those
stolen were kept separate by John Dunlop.  Got L,2: could not however say exact-
ly what he received.

 John Carmichial (another accomplice) collaborated the above evidence, and as.
sisted in the commiss oh o the theft, for which he received L.1

Several other witnesses completely established the guilt of Dunlop and Hamer.

The Lord Justice Clerk charged the Jury, who after a short deliberat on returned   
a verdict of Guilty, against Dunlop and Harmer; and Not Proven gainst Hunter,
who was therefore liberated from the bar.    The other prisoners, after ar, impressive 
admonition from the Lord Justice Clerk, were sentenced  to be transported for 14
years.    The trial lasted till two o'clock on Tuesday morning.

John Muir, Printer, Glasgow.Trial & Sentence

A full and particular account of the trial of DONALD RANKINE who was tried at the High Court of Justicary on Monday the 3d December, and was found guilty of the crime of robbery for which he was condemned to be executed at Inverary on Friday the 18th of January 1822. Also an account of the trial of Donald McKenzie who was sentenced to fourteen years transportation.

Donald Rankine was put to the bar, to receive sentence in consequence of a verdict of guilty of robbery being found against him at the Circuit Court of Inverary, but remitted to this Court to try the validity of an objection made by the prisoners counsel respecting an error in the date of the verdict and which had subsequently been decided. After a subsequent address by the Lord Justice Clerk, and information given the panel, that the recommendation of mercy should be transmitted to the proper quarter, he was sentenced to be executed at Inverary on Friday, the 18th day of January next, between the hours of 2 and 4 o’clock. — Rankine is supposed to be a native of Glasgow, and was tried at Inverary for the said crime, but in consequence of an error being found in the date of the verdict, he was remitted here for further trial.

Donal McKenzie, painter in Edinburgh, was next put to the bar, charged with robbing Lawrence Scotland of a gold chain and seal at the foot of Brodie’s close, Lawnmarket, on the evening of the 19th September last. The panel pleaded Not guilty. Mr Scotland gave evidence as to the robbery, and identified the chain, seal, and key; several other witnesses were examined relative to the circumstances attending the robbery, among whome were a number of boys who gave alarm, and otherwase aided in the apprehension of the panel, The Jury commanded for a few minutes, and returned a verdict of Guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk commend the witness Peter Mill, one of the boys who pursued the prisoner, for his conduct in this respect, and observed that if all other boys were to followed his example, he believed less depradations of this kind would be committed.

He was sentenced to 14 years’ transportation. Whereupon the prisoner threw out some reflections against the Court; and on retiring from the bar, exclaimed — “Justice! What a Court of Justice!”

Edinburgh Printed for William Cameron.
Price one penny.       Trail

and Sentence.

 An account of the Trial   and  Sen-
trnce of John Douglas,   who is   to
be Executed at Edinburgh on Wed-
Wensday the 28th of January, 1824.
for Highway Robbery, between Por-
tobello and Musselburgh off Novem-
ber last.

This day Wednesday Dec,   24th   1823,   came  on  before  the
Court   of  Justiciary,   the   trial   of   John   Donglas,  for  the
robbery of Mr James Anderson, residing et Whim, near
Gullane, in the County of Haddington, on the night of the
1st November last, in a lane leading towards the sea on the
Musselburgh road.

James Anderson was in a honse in   Fleshmarket Close,
on the night of the 1st   November   1823,   where   he   had
some porter; left the house, and met  an   acquaintance  who
was along with Douglas at the head of said close. Douglas
said he belonged to Musselburgh, upon which Anderson ad-
vised Douglas to take a ticket in the Portobello coach, as he
had done, Douglas went to the coach-office and pdrchased a
ticket,  for which he paid 1s.    They sat next to one another
in the coach.    After arriving  at  Portobello,  Mr  Anderson
said that as he had a niece in Portobcllo where he could get
a Bed, he would go no farther,   Douglas   said, he knew her,
and that she was an out-relation of his.    The witness propos-
ed to call at a  public  house  which  he  knew, and Douglas
said he would shew him it, they went forward for some time
when witness  observed   he had  surely   taken   him wrong,
Douglas pointed to a light a small distance from them, they   
entered, but found it was nat the house,   he  told Mr Bairns-
feather, that that man, pointing  to Douglas, had taken him
wrong.    They got in a half-mutchkin of spirits and Douglas 
offered to pay 4 1/2d, but  Mr   Andrrson  bade  him lift it up
and pay the next.    Mr Anderson then proposed to be going
and Douglas  offered  to   convoy him. At   a short distance
from the house, Douglas   forced   him    to  turn down a lane,
where  he knocked  him  down,  placed his knee upon his
chest, and took from his pockets a silver hunting watch, and
sixteen shillings, and run off down towards the sea. Mr An-   
derson returned to the house and  told he was robbed by the
man he was drinking   with....The  pannel was   apprehended
in his fathers   house,  and the watch was found below the
pillow.                   

The Jury, without leaving the box, returned a verdict  of
Guilty, with a recommendation to mercy.

The Lord Justice  Clerk  addressed the prisoner at consi-
derable   length, giving  him   the   most salutary advice as to
regulating   his conduct   for   the  short   remaining   days  of.
his   life.    He then   passed  the  awful sentence of the   law,
which was, that he be executed at the common place of exe-
cution, head of Liberton's Wynd, Edinburgh,  on Wednesday
the 28th day of January next;   observing at the same time,
that from the enormity of the  crime, together  with the cir-
cumbtance  of  his  having stood  trial at   that bar before, he
had no grounds   whareon   to   found any hope of mercy, al-
though in accordance with   the Jury's recommendation, ap-
plication will be made  to the proper quarter.         

Trial and

Sentence.

The Trial Sentence of
William Adams, alias Reid,
for the Robbery of Michael
Pirnie, who is to be executed
at Edinburgh on the 6th of
January, 1830.

Edinburgh, Dec. 1. 1829.

Came on before the high Court of Justiciary, the trial
of William Adams, or Reid, the indictment stated,
that the said William Adams, did in the Venal enter-
ing  from the north side of the cowgate of Edinburgh,
or on or near a stair leading from the said Venal to the
back stairs of Edinqurgh, violently wickedly and felo-
niously attack and assault Michael Pirnie, mason,then
or residing at Gifford park, near Edinburgh, in the
parish of St chuthbert's and county of Edinburgh, and
did strike him a severe blow on the head with your
clenched fist, or with some; other weapon to the Pro-
secutor unknown, by which he was instantly knocked,
to the ground ; and while lying on the ground, did by
force and violence seize and did rob him of a one pound
bank or benker's note of the firm of Sir William.
Forbes & co. for shillings and sixpence sterling-
or thereby in silver money, and twopence or thereby
in copper money, and a plain tin snuff-box being all
the property in the possession of the said Michalel
Pirnie. The panel dleaded not guilty.

Michael Pirnie mason being sworn stated that on
the 5th September he was going np the Venel, when
the prisoner who had followed him struck him a tre-
mendous blow which brought him to the ground. He
had in his pockets a twenty shilling note, of the bank
of sir William Forbes J. Hunter and C0. four shillings
aud sixpence in silver, and twopence in copper money,
also a plain tin snufF-box ; after being foundered with
the blow and knocked down the prisoner kicked and
struck him very severely He identified the tin snuff-
box which was shown im.

A number of witnesses were examined whose
various statements went to prove the charge against
the prisoner, and completely established the fact of his
identity.

The Lord Justice Clerk pointed out the evidence to
the Jury at full length, and particularly bore upon the
'evidences  of the various   witnesses whose  evidence
brought home the charge to the prisoner,    The Jury
after consulting for  some time gave  in their  unani-
mous verdict of guilty.    The Lord Justice Clerk  then
addressed the prisoner in a  very  feeling  speech   and
said that although the Jury had humanely recommen-
ded him, yet he warned him not to place any hopes on
that recommendation, but to   prepare himself for the
awful end, which the  laws  of his  country  submitted
to.    He then pronounced  the sentence,  which  was
that he was to be executed at Edinburgh on the 6th of
January, 1830, betwixt the  hours  of eignt and  nine
o'clock morning, at the usual place of execution.

The prisoner is a.tall stout looking young man, and
is well known in Edinburgh,   more  especially   at the
head of the canongate, being brought up by his grand-
mother who keeps a small shop at that place, and   in
fact was better known by her name (Reid) than by his
own.    His father is a porter  in Edinburgh, an honest
and quiet man, but we are sorry to say that the prison-
er has proved himself all along a very undutiful and
disobedient son, he is now about 20 years of age, which
he has spent in a very loose and dissolute manner.

              TRIAL

         and Sentence.


An account of the trial and Sentence
of William Titting or Knox, and
John M'Kenzie or M'Kinlay, who are
to be executed at Edinburgh, on the
15th day of December next, for break-
ing into a house in Charlotte Square.
                                                                     
This day, Tuesday, 9th November 1824, came on before the
High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of William Tutton, alias
William Titton,  alias  John   Kuox, and John M'Kenzie
M'Kinlay, alias  John M'Kinlay,  accused of the crimes of
Housebreaking and Theft ; by breaking into the house of 
Captain John Forbes Drummond of  Hawthornden, R. N.
and stealing therefrom a great quantity of articles. The pri-
soners pleaded Guilty to the charges, and were found guilty
on their own confession.
	
Eighteen witnesses were summoned for the Crown, but in
consequence of the prisoners pleading guilty, they were none
of them examined.                                                          . .

The house into which they broke is situated in Charlotte
Square, west end of the New Town, Edinburgh. It hap-
pened early on the morning of the 6th of July last. They
forced open one of the windows of the sunk story, by, which
they entered, and then broke open a chest of drawers, chests,
and a wardrobe, and emptied them of their contents, which
of 3 two lib parcels of Tea, a Ladies' satin pelisses and three
silk gowns, different colours, a satin gown, fur tippet, twelve
yards silk, white satin gown, Lady's tartan cloak, three razors
an opera-glass, silver thimble, gold locket, beads, lace frill,
hair frou'ler, plated tea spoon, and a great variety of other
articles. Information was given next morning of the rob-
bery at the police-office, but previous to which, the prisoners.
through the vigilance of the police-officers, were apprehend-
ed and lodged safely in custody. Both prisoners along with
a omman, and the stolen goods were taken into custody
going down the old Fish Market Close.           

His Lordship before proceeding to pass sentence on the
prisoners gave them a most suitable admonition, advising
them to prepare for that awful end to which they had
brought themselves, as they had no hopes of mercy been
extended to them on this side of the grave. His Lordship
sentenced them to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day the 15th day of December 1824, The woman received
sentence of transportation for life.

The prisoners behaved in the court with propriety, one of
them, a delicate looking young man, about 19 years of age,
seemed to be more daunted then the other, who is of a stout
make, and about thirty years of age.

Printed for the Booksellers.    Price one penny.THE   LAST

SPEECH,

Confession and dying words of JAMES DORMAND, who
was execute at Perth, on Friday the 31st of May 1793.
for Four crimes of Highway Robbery.

JAMES DORMAND, was a native of, and born in the north of Ireland, only
 aged 19 years, of honest and respectable parents, who, gave him an education
suitable to their situation, and to his capacity, but to Which, it appears, he paid little
attention; he was brought up to the manufacturing line; but being of a roving and wild
disposition, could not settle at his business, and neglecting his work for days, and even
sometimes for a whole week together, caused his masters to make heavy complaints to
his parents and cautioners, but of all the remonstrances that could be used with him was
of no affect, on the contray, it rather hardened him in his wicked and vicious courses.
He at last left his business and absconded altogether, taking with him money, and some
other articles, part of which he stole from his father and mother, &c He then went to
Dublin, and fell in to the chapman way, but he had not been long there when his mas-
ter advertised him; having notice of which, he shipped for Scotland, and along with
him one Robert Rogers, who was convicted of the same crime, and is now lying in jail,
under his Majesty's, respite for three weeks. They then came to Glasgow selling their
goods, travelling through the country, until they came to Dundee; and having both
engaged themselves to one of the menufacturing houses in that place, continued now
and then at their work until such time as this last robbery which they committed was
found out.

When Rogers and Dormand left Dublin, they landed at Saltcoats, and coming on
the road betwixt Irvine and that place, they fell in with a young women, whom, it is
confidently said, they murdered and robbed her of a bundal, which she was carrying;
whether this be absolutely truth or not we cannot positively say, at any rate the woman
was murdered on that road about two years ago, and her body dragged into the inside of
a hedge. She was seen walking on the road in company with a soldier some time be-
fore, but he wanting a refreshment, went into a public house, and insisted very much on
her to go in with him, but she positively declined. The man having refreshed himself
pursued his journey, and having gone a good way, he met as he still supposes, this Dor-
mand and Rogers, with the young women's, bundal in one of their hands, which he
knew some way off, but took no thought how or what way it came into their possession,-
and still continuing his march, he saw some blood on the road which he traced to the
inside of the hedge, where he found the murdered body lying, upon which, the soldier
immediately concluded, that these two men he had seen before with her bundle, were
the actors of this horird deed.

Such is the report that has gone abroad, if it be true, it is hoped that Dormand will
confess it with sincere and contrite repentance before he is launched into endless eternity,

Dormand confesses that he has been guilty of many enormous crimes, and of being much
addicted to drink and bad company, both of which he could not refrain ; he said. For
him to enter into a particular detail of the many crimes he has been guilty of, would only
tO the public.

He confessed with four roberries in and about Dundee, with several other petty crimes,
particularly that for which he was sentenced; and regrets the taking the watch from the
farmer, which, with 2 l. I OS. was all they robbed him of. Their acquaintances offered the
farmer forty pounds sterling, if he. would declare at their trial that the watch was not his.

This unfortunate young man has appeared very penitent for this some time past, and
expressed a great deal of thankfulness that he had got so long a time to think seriously of
his evil ways, and prepare for another world; he said he was much obliged to the inhabi-
tants, the clergy, and the jailors, for the great knidness they had shown to him since he
was under sentence of death ; and expressed his thankfulness to those gentlemen who had
interceeded for his Majesty's clemency towards him ; and hoped, that as his (brother in ini-
guity) Rogers, had got a rspite for a short time, he would obtain a free pardon ; and beg-
ged of him to keep always in mind how narrow an escape he has made, and shun the ap-
pearance of all evil, and learn to do well; and exhorted him not to forget his fatal excite,
and that, without a sincere repentance, their always awaited a punishment, either sooner
or latter, for those that does evil. 

                                JAMES DORMAND

An Account of the Trial and Sentence
of   Thomas   Black, and  John Reid
two Boys, who are to be Executed at
the  head of Libertons Wynd Edin.
on Wednesday the  10th day of Dec.
next, for House breaking and Robbery
in the Neighbourhood of Leith.

Tuesday, 4th November, 1823. This day came on before the
High Court of Justiciary the Trial  of John Reid, and Thomas
Black, accused of having, on the night of the 24th of June, 1823,
broke into the house of Mr Alexander White, merchant in Leith,
at Summerfield, in the parish of South Leith, and stolen therefrom
thirteen tea spoons, six toddy ladles, a sauce spoon and a divider,
all of silver; also a plated gravy spoon, a plated fish knife, plated
wine funnel, a blue coat, an olive surtout, two black pairs of silk
stockings, a night cap, and a musical snuff box, the property of
Mr Alex. White ; also a blue coat ann toilonette vest, the proper-
ty of William White, residing in the above-mentioned house; and
for being habit and repute thieves.

The Prisoners pled Not Guilty, and their declarations were
then read.

There was a list of 18 witnesses against the prisoners. From
the evidence of the witnesses who were examined, among whom
Mr White, Margaret Bremner, and Cathrine Farquhar, his two
house servants, were the principal, we have collected the following
particulars. On the evening of the 24th day of June, the house
was broke into, and the above articles carried off; the witnesses
identified part of the articles in the court. Some days previous
to that en which the robbery was committed, one of the witnesses
observed the prisoners lingering about the house and seemingly
taking a narrow inspection of the premises; she observed this to
her neighbour, and next day they both saw the prisoners walking
in the same manner. The pannels entered the house by a window
in the second story, to which they climbed up by the assistance of
a pailing. The officers of Police apprehended the prisoners in the
house of a Mrs Pirric, along with part of the articles; this Mrs
Pir:ie was also a witness on the trial.

After hearing counsel on both sides, the Lord Justice Clerk
summed up the evidence in the most clear and distinct manner ;
he made the observation, that had Mr Whyte awoke and endea-
voured to seize the prisoners, they would in all probability have
become the perpetrators of the still more horrid crime of murder
rather than be taken into custody at the time.

The Jury retired for about half an hour, and returned a verdict
of Guilty, but on acconnt of their youth, recommended them
to mercy.

The prisoners are both very young men, Black appeared to be
about 17, and Reid abont 15 years of age. They appeared very
indifferent during the examination of the witnesses, and the
solemn exhortation they received from the Lotd Justice Clerk
seemed to affect them very much. Black sat with his hat on
during the trial, which is very unusual.

The Lord Justice Clerk then addressed the prisoners at consid-
erable length in  the most feeling manner,  warning them   not to
rely on mercy, but prepare themselves for that awful end to which
their own acts had brought them.    He then sentenced them to be
Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday 10th December next.
          Printed for B, Brown...Price ONE PENNY.The sorrowful Lamentations of Willian Thomson, who is now
lying under the awful sentence of Death, in the Calton Jail,
and who is to be executed on Thursday the 1st of March, at
Dalkeith, with an acconut of his behaviour since his con-
demnation.

William and James Thomson, and John Fram, were condemned before the
High Court of Justiciciary, to be executed at Dalkeith on the 1st of March, for
the robbery of Mr Hunter, Farmer, betwixt Dalkeith and Musselburgh. John
Thomson and John Fram were both recommended to mercy by the Jury, which
recommendation being forwarded to the proper quarters, a respite during his
Majesty's pleasure arrived a few days back, these two, who received the happy in-
telligence, from the Magistrates, with a melancholy composure, immediateiy cast-
ing their eyes on their more unhappy companion. The behaviour of the whole
three, was very becoming their situation, and William, though he appeared very
sullen and melancholy for a few days after the respite was received, has to all ap-
pearance, given up his mind entirely to meet his doom with resignation.

He regrets very much, his not paying that attention to his family, that a parent
ought in duty to do, and already looks back on the manner in which he has spent
his days with horror; he is chearfully instructed in what he appears never to have
thought on, and is in a manner entirely ignorant of, by a number of pious and re-
spectable people who visits him.

Tir'd of the bustle of the day,

In solitude I hied,
To where, from noise and toil set free.

My thoughts might range at wide.
By yon dark Jail I passed along,

For criminals prepar'd,
When from its cell a piteous sound

Of woe methought I heard.
I sped to whence it did proceed,

The words distincter grew,
A Thief thus his fate bewail,d,

And did for mercy sue.

" Lock'd are the golden gates of day,

Tis thine, O night, ! 'o keep,
Morpheus, in velvet's soft array;

Has hush'd the busy world to sleep.
To me no calm like this is known

Sleep from my eyes has ever fled,
Conscience its snaky head has raised,

And all my sins before me led.
Far from my wretched mind has hope

On fleetest pinions soar'd away ;
No comfort left my state to cheer,
No balm my anguish to allay.

Companions in my revels, think

What you are now, and soon must be,
 For God has me a warning made,

That speaks with solemn voice to thee
Before to morrow's sun slrall risc

To cheer the world, ah! who can tell,
But death may plunge your trembling souls

Down to the realms where devils dwell
Oh ! can you bear the dreadful thought,
 
Should God this night your souls require,
Can you endure eternal wrath,

Or bear the pangs of quenchless fire ?
O ! Pow'r Divine. my sins forgive :

Thour't gracious, grace extend to me,
That when my flesh is tutned to nought,

My spirit may be, Lord, with thee.
A few short days, and I am plac'd

Beyond  the reach of mortal woe ;
Protect my family in that trying hour,

That they may Satan overthrow.
Farewell my children, friends, and all,

For you my tears in torrents fell,
Forgive the effnsions of my love,

We part in hope to meet above.
1827