A Panegyrick on Philip King of Spain, upon his renouncing his
Crown  and Kingdoms, to live in a Hermitage,
By Mr.   Pennecuik.

HAIL Miracle of Monarchs who resigns,
Thy Crown, thy Kingdoms, and thy Golden Mines,
Mocking the royal Pageantry of State,                   

Ambitious rather to be good, than great;
Whilst others proudly struggle for a Crown,
You throw your Grandure and Regalia down ;
Warm'd with an Altar Coal, thy Heart  doth pant,
To   find a Jesus, and   commence a Saint.
Had you like Charles, the Martyre, Britain's King,
Who now in Heaven doth lo Triumphs sing,
Felt the rebellious Subjects pois'nous Breath,
And by a cursed Cromwell push'd to Death ;
Or had the Turk and Monster Merriweys,
The Rogue who sovereign Majesty betrays,
Audaciously presum'd thy Throne to climb,
And from thy Temples pull'd the Diadem ;
No Wonder you had loath'd   the regal   Toil,
Dispis'd the Purple and  the anointing Oil,
Fled to a lonly Hermitage to dwell,
And sigh thy rigid Fate in a religious Cell,
But in the pride of Life and Success too,
When mighty Monarchs were afraid of you,
Nor Foreign or domestick Wars did feel,
And Fortune seem'd naill'd to your Chariot Wheel,
To give the Slip to fortune and betray,
A Jilt perhaps had other Game to Play,
For fickle Fortune, often sports with Kings,
Stops their Carreor, and clips their Eagle Wings,
Knowing her Cheats, you play'd upon the Square,
And subtile as she is, ye did betray her,
O glorious Philip, thy great Name shall fly,
As far as there is Seas or Earth or Sky.

Dayly with pleasure, doth the Sun arise,
Dispells the Night, and brightens up the Skies,
To show the drouzie World, his honest Face,
And View thy vast Dominions in his Race,
For thee he dcth spontaniously Toil,
To ripen into Gold thy sacred Soil,

Early and late thy ample Fortune spyes,

And when he doth roll down the Northren Skies,

Leaves us poor Mortalls in our Dark abodes

To tell thy Riches to our Antipods.

B U T you renounce these Fields of golden Ore,

  In solitude the Donator to adore,

So Charles the fifth, tyr'd with the Worlds affairs

Retir'd and spent his Hoary Age in Prayers,                      

Thou art the Subject of our sacred Song,

Phillip d' Espagne, le Grand et le bon,

Tho' some conclude you a politick Prince,

( Honi soit qai mal y pense )

Gone to a Desart from a deep Intrigue,

To form a. Plot and Crush the Gallick League.  F I N I S.Court Circular,

FROM THE PENNY SATIRIST.

" What's your  opinion of the Corn Laws, Albert?"
said  the  Queen,   to her  spouse; "you ought to be a
counseller to me, in governing the affairs of this mighty
Empire-"     " Vy." said   the  emasculated   helpmate   to
Royalty. " before I vass a farmer, I lot dat der sheep
corn   vas  best  for  mein  orses     Putt now, ven I is a
farmer, I bekinn to zee   dat der dear corn is pest for
dee country ! '   " Then, your sentiments have  under-
gone a change, since you began the farming business?''
"Oh !   ver mootch, I   sees  it  in a total tifferent light,
now—I tink dat doe farmers require  protection to keep
up der  price—and   de   landlord   require  protection, to
keep up dee rent —it  am mootch better   to   pay teer for
a pushell of corn for dee orses, dan sell a quarter of corn
sheep for dee people, eh ?  dat's it ! eh? oh ! I sees it !
ha ! ha !"    " So do I'' said the Queen, " I sees it too—-
as you call it     You're a regular sham, Albert.    Graham,
and Stanley, and butter-mouthed Peel, have been giving
you lessons in Conservative arithmetic;—and now, that
you have turned corn dealer, and potatoe grower, and
ox feeder, I fear you will become a truckster ere long,
and bring disgrace upon the. crown."    " No, mein deer,"
said Albert affectionately ; " it am all for dee gootof dee
country—dis plissed country, which is risen to dee sum-
mit of prosperity by deer corn, vhen all odder countries
am fallen down vith deer sheep.    Look at my poor tear
Shermany—peef Sd. a pound, mouton 2½d a pound—so
sheep ! and yet so ferry poor, dat all dee Shermans dat
can affort to travel, or find an opportunity to steal der
woy, come over to England, kett money, ko pack, and
liqe vell, and sheep ! eh?    Der am alvays most monies
vere tings are dear—and oh,"  clasping his hands, and
elevating one eye to beauen, and ogling the Queen with
the other; "tings am tear in England; had I married
a Sherman vife,  I should has tied vith melancholy and
fixation.'    "Ah!" said the Queen, " that's what we call
'soap' in  England.    But, as for the fixation. I suspect
that you are in as fast a   fix' here as you could be any
where else;   and that  no vice in Germany could hold
you faster.    It is a queer way of making a husband vir-
tuous, to put him in a vice—but it is the surest; for, as.
nothing but vice will hold men, it is a woman's duty to
select the strongest and the best for the partner of her
fortune, to prevent his being entrapped by others that
are worse "    " Vell," said Albert. sighing, and looking
woefully at his vice-eaus partner.    The Queen returned
the gaze ; and the two stand silently vis-a-vis (vice-a-vic)
divining each other.    "A penny for your thoughts," said
her Majesty, after a, short interval.    " Fatt ?" said Al-
bert,   " mine for yours's;   dat's barter, or Royal  Ex-
change, eh ?"    " I set a higher value upon mine than to
dispose of them at so low a rate "    " Fatt would you
ask for dem, eh?" said the anxious husband.    " What
would you give?" said the wife.    " Mein art'' said Al-
bert.     " I have too much of that already,"  said  the
Queen.    " Fatt ?"   said  Albert, drawing himself up-
arms  a-kimbo.    Her   Majesty  mimics  him with  com-
pressed lips  and determined   look.     His Matrimonial
Majesty turns round, and is about to retire, when his
royal partner gives him a hand-some present of a box
between the shoulders, reminding him of his  rudeness
in   turning   his  back upon  Majesty.    His Connubial
Majesty therefore turns his countenance Queen-ward,
and bowing, and scraping, backs out—the Queen curt-
seying with extreme politeness.

[Behind the scenes.    A squall from the nursery.]

Sanderson, Printer.  High Streets Edinburgh.    V.R.

Grand Preparations

        FOR THE 

Queen's Coronation !

 

An Account of some of the Festivities which will take place in
Edinburgh and Vicinity, on Thursday the 28th June, 1838,
being the day appointed for the Coronation of Our Most Graci-
ous Sovereign, QUEEN VICTORIA FIRST.

A most brilliant and splendid display of Fire Works will be ex-
hibited from the Half Moon Battery in the Castle, on Thursday eve-
ning, on this joyous and auspicious occasion ; and, at the same time,
a large Bonefire will be lighted on the summit of Authur's Seat,
which must have a grand appearance from the surrounding country.

The Shops, and all places of Public Business, are to be shut up
for the whole day, to give all classes of her Majesty's subjects here
an opportunity to testify their joy and loyalty on this occasion.
It must also very satisfactory to learn, that the College Museum,
as well as various other Public Institutions, possessing great interest,
will, on Thursday, be opened to the public in general, under cer-
tain necessary regulations - thus affording a treat to the whole	
citizens of Edinburgh, which is seldom attainable.

There is to be a Grand Banquet in the Assembly Rooms, George
Street, the Tickets for which are selling rapidly, and nearly all sold.
Also, in order to allow sufficient opportunity to the inhabitants to
meet together on this happy occasion, there is to be an Entertain-
ment in the Great Waterloo Room, Regent Bridge, in addition to
the Banquet in the Assembly Rooms, and there is good reason
to believe that every thing will be conducted in the most creditable
manner to the city. Several other smaller parties intend meeting
to celebrate the Coronation in the same happy, loyal and joyous
manner.

One of the most magnificent individual manifestations of loyalty
towards our youthful and beloved Queen, to be exhibited in this,
or we believe, any other quarter of the Empire, on Thursday first,
will take place on the occasion of the partial Opening of his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch's splendid Pier at Granton, in the vicinity
of Edinburgh. All the principal Nobility and Centry at present
in town, being invited to a Grand Entertainment to be given on
the Pier that day at two o'clock, in honour of the auspicious event;
at which his Grace's brother, Lord John Scott, will preside. At the
same time, with his wonted liberality, has given orders that several
oxen shall be roasted, and other appropriate viands prepared—not
forgetting a suitable supply of liquids—in order that the whole of
the industrious artisans and labourers (upwards of 300 in num-
ber), employed on the Works, may participate in the festivities and
rejoicings of the day.

That his Grace may be long preserved to diffuse comfort and
happiness amongst his numerous dependants, both at Granton and
elsewhere, will certainly be the prevailing wish amongst all classes
of the community, upon the forthcoming interesting occasion.

And finally, among the numerous ways in which Thursday - a
day that will long be remembered - is proposed to be spent, the
clergy of the Established Church in Leith resolve to hold a meeting
in South Leith Church, at eleven o'clock forenoon of that day, for
the purpose of offering up prayers to Almighty God for a long and
prosperous reign to her Majesty - and that the Coronation Anthem
is to be sung by the Choir, and the Queen's Anthem by the chil-
dren attending the Charity and Sessional Schools, on the occasion.
	
A Grand Cricket Match, between the Holyrood and Caledonian
Clubs, is to be played on Thursday, her Majesty's Coronation day,
on Sparkes Cricket Ground, Grove Street, which is expected to be
a great treat to the lovers of this noble and manly game.

Menxies, Printer.Mary,  Queen o' Scots.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this splendid production can always be obtained at the POET'S Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow. The most varied
and extensive stock of Songs, Stories, Readings, Recitations, &c., in the Kingdom. Catalogues (24pp) may be had on application
for One Penny, or sent, per post, for Three Halfpence.

I look'd far back into other years, and lo ! in bright array,
I saw, as in a dream, the forms of ages pass away.

It was a stately convent, with its old and lofty walls,
And gardens, with their broad green walks, where soft the footstep falls ;
And o'er the antique dial-stones the creeping shadow pass'd,
And all around the noon-day sun a drowsy radiance cast.
No sound of busy life was heard, save from the cloister dim,
The tinkling of the silver bell, or the sisters' holy hymn.
And there five noble maidens sat, beneath the orchard trees,
In that first budding spring of youth, when all its prospects please ;
And little reck'd they when they sang, or knelt at vesper prayers,
That Scotland knew no prouder names—held none more dear than theirs;
And little even the loveliest thought, before the Virgin's Shrine,
Of royal blood, and high descent from the ancient Stuart line;
Calmly her happy days flew on, uncounted in their flight,
And as they flew, they left behind a long-continued light.

The scene was changed.    It was the court—the gay court of Bourbon,—
And 'neath a thousand silver lamps, a thousand courtiers throng;
And proudly kindles Henry's eye—well pleased, I ween, to see
The land assemble all its wealth of grace and chivalry :—
Gray Montmorency, o'er whose head has passed a storm of years,
Strong in himself and children stand, the first among his peers;
And next the Guises, who so well fame's steepest heights assailed,
And walked ambition's diamond ridge, where bravest hearts have failed;
And higher yet their path shall be, stronger shall wax their might,
For before them Montmorency's star shall pale its waning light.
Here Louis, Prince of Condé, wears his all-unconquered sword,
With great Coligni by his side—each name a household word !
And there walks she of Medicis—the proud Italian line,
The mother of a race of kings—the haughty Catharine !
The forms that follow in her train, a glorious sunshine make—
A milky way of stars that grace a comet's glittering wake ;
But fairer far than all the rest, who bask on fortune's tide,
Effulgent in the light of youth, is she the new-made bride !
The homage of a thousand hearts—the fond, deep love of one—
The hopes that dance around a life whose charms are but begun—
They lighten up her chestnut eye, they mantle o'er her cheek,
They sparkle on her open brow, and high-souled joy bespeak.
Ah ! who shall blame, if scarce that day, through all its brilliant hours,
She thought of that quiet convent's calm, its sunshine, and its flowers ?

The scene was changed.    It was a bark that slowly held its way,
And o'er its lee the coast of France in the light of evening lay ;
And on its deck a lady sat, who gazed with tearful eyes
Upon the fast receding hills, that dim and distant rise.
No marvel that the lady wept : there was no land on earth
She loved like that dear kind, although she owed it not her birth ;
It was her mother's land, the land of childhood and of friends—
It was the land where she had found for all her griefs amends—
The land where her dead husband slept, the land where she had known
The tranquil convent's hushed repose, and the splendours of a throne ;
No marvel that the lady wept—it was the land of France,
The chosen home of chivalry, the garden of romance !
The past was bright, like those dear hills so far behind her bark ;
The future, like the gathering night, was ominous and dark !
One gaze again—one long, last gaze—" Adieu, fair France, to thee !"
The breeze comes forth—she is alone on the unconscious sea.

The scene was changed.    It was an eve of raw and surly mood,
And in a turret-chamber high of ancient Holyrood
Sat Mary, listening to the rain, and sighing with the winds,
That seemed to suit the stormy state of men's uncertain minds.
The touch of care had blanched her cheek—her smile was sadder now,
The weight of royalty had pressed too heavy on her brow ;
And traitors to her councils came, and rebels to the field;
The Stuart sceptre well she swayed, but the sword she could not wield.
She thought of all her blighted hopes—the dreams of youth's brief day,
And summoned Rizzio with his lute, and bade the minstrel play
The songs she loved in early years—the songs of gay Navarre,
The songs, perchance, that erst were sung by gallant Chatelar :
They half beguiled her of her cares, they soothed her into smiles,
They won her thoughts from bigot zeal, and fierce domestic broils ;
But hark ! the tramp of armed men ! the Douglas' battle cry !
They come—they come ; and lo ! the scowl of Ruthven's hollow eye !
And swords are drawn, and daggers gleam, and tears and words are vain,
The ruffian steel is in his heart—the faithful Rizzio's slain !
Then Mary Stuart brushed aside the tears that trickling fell ;
" Now for my father's arm !" she said, " My woman's heart farewell !"

The scene was changed.    It was a lake, with one small, lonely isle,
And there, within the prison walls of its baronial pile,
Stern men stood menacing their queen, till she should stoop to sign
The traitorous scroll that snatched the crown from her ancestral line ;
" My lords ! my lords !" the captive said, " Were I but once more free,
With ten good knights on yonder shore to aid my cause and me,
That parchment would I scatter wide to every breeze that blows,
Aud once more reign a Stuart Queen o'er my remorseless foes !"
A red spot burned upon her cheek, streamed her rich tresses down,
She wrote the words.    She stood erect—a queen without a crown !

The scene was changed.    A royal host a royal banner bore,
And the faithful of the land stood round their smiling queen once more ;
She stayed her steed upon a hill—she saw them marching by—
She heard their shouts—she read success in every flashing eye ;
The tumult of the strife begins—it roars—it dies away ;
And Mary's troops and banners now, and courtiers—where are they ?
Scattered and strewn, and flying far, defenceless and undone—
Oh ! God ; to see what she has lost, and think what guilt has won !
Away !—away ! thy gallant steed must act no laggard's part ;
Yet vain his speed, for thou dost bear the arrow in thy heart.

The scene was changed.    Beside the block a sullen headsman stood,
And gleamed the broad axe in his hand that soon must drip with blood.
With slow and steady step there came a lady through the hall, .
And breathless silence chained the lips, and touched the hearts of all;
Rich were the sable robes she wore—her white veil round her fell,
And from her neck there hung  the cross—the cross she loved so well.
I knew that queenly form again, though blighted was its bloom ;
I saw that grief had decked it out—an offering for the tomb !
I knew the eye, though faint its light, that once so brightly shone ;
I knew the voice, though feeble now, that thrilled with every tone;
I knew the ringlets, almost gray, once threads of living gold,
I knew that bounding grace of step—that symmetry of mould.
Even now I  see her far away, in that calm convent aisle,
I hear her chant her vesper-hymn, I mark her holy smile,
Even now I see her bursting forth upon her bridal morn,
A new star in the firmament, to light and glory born.
Alas ! the change ; she placed her foot upon a triple throne,
And on the scaffold now she stands—beside the block, alone !
The little dog that licks her hand, the last of all the crowd
Who sunned themselves beneath her glance, and round her footsteps bowed.
Her neck is bared—the blow is struck—the soul is passed away—
The bright—the beautiful—is now a bleeding piece of clay !
The dog is moaning piteously ; and, as it gurgles o'er,
Laps the warm blood that trickling runs unheeded to the floor !
The blood of beauty, wealth, and power—the heart-blood of a queen—
The noblest of the Stuart race—the fairest earth hath seen—
Lapped by a dog !    Go ; think of it in silence and alone ;
Then weigh against a grain of sand the glories of a throne.

P R I N  T I N G

Of every description executed on the premises, with Expedition, Accuracy, Neatness, and Punctuality, at very Moderate Prices.
Parties will receive every assistance in drawing out the Form of their Orders, and will be shown numerous specimens to select
from.    Orders sent per Post, 'Bus, or Rail, with the utmost despatch.
Saturday, October 27, 1877.The true Copy of a Paper stuck
upon the D. of M---'s Gate at
St. James's, on the 8th of March,
being the Day of Her Majesty's
Accession to the Crown.

A  German Prince of Noble Race,
A very ancient Peer,
No upstart Traytor in Disgrace
Doth now inhabite here,
A Patriot faithful to his Trust,
Both generous and good ;
Not rais'd by Treachery or Lust,
Nor   shedding   any  Blood.
Whose humble Spouse we will admire,                 
The Nation's dearest Million,
Who to Wealth did not aspire,
Nor absolute Dominion. 
For all  Employments she refus'd
Of Honour and of Gain ;
It's Pity they should  be accus'd
But soon restor'd again.     
The * Sand-ridge Baron now doth stand                
Like Church ill rais'd on Ridge of Sand.           
A Church ill rais'd by Sin's Assistance,                    
Suits with the 'Doctrine of Resistance :
Yield but the least Resistance lawful,
Dread  Majesty's no longer awful,
And Government it selfdoes stand
Like Church ill, rais'd on Ridge of Sand
For by the Rule ( as wife Men tell )
Knaves get an Inch they'll take an Ell ;
And so proceed, by Sin's  Assistance,  
Onto unlimited Resistance.
But God who guards our Gracious ANNE,
Will smite the Great Leviathan.
Thus on their Heads Heav'n's Vengeance hurld,
shall quash the Plunderers of the World.
Good God of Peace hence scatter far       
Those Plunderers that delight in WarCoronation of His Majesty

Which took place at London on Thursday last, the 19th July, 1821,
with an account of the non-admittance of the Queen.


London, July 19th,1822.—This morning, so early as two o'clock, the streets resounded
With the rattling of carriages, and at three the platform leading from Westminister Hall to
the Abbey was thrown open to public view.    The outside of the platform was occupied
by masses of troops, and disclosed the interior, like the celebrated Trojan horse,  filled with
Soldiers, lying down, except a few to prevent the intrusion of the populace.

About half-past five o'clock, her Majesty in her state carriage, drawn by 6 horses, en-
tered St. James' Park by Constitution Hall Gate. Her Majesty was not observed  until she
entered the Park, when she was loudly cheered, and the general exclamation was, " God-
bless your Majesty! stick up for your rights, we will protect you !". The soldiers at the
different posts  which She passed, presented  arms to her. Her Majesty was dressed in white,
and had on her head a eap or bandeau, with a large plume of white ostrich feathers, and
appeared  in full health. About half-past six o'clock, the Lord  Mayor and other Members
of the City, proceeded for Westminster Hall. Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Glou-
cester was the first of the Royal Family who arrived. About half-past, shouts were  heard
from without, and a great bustle among the guards around the entrance, and cries of  "Shut
the gates! shut the gates, were distinctly heard, and as readily obeyed." This announced
the approach of her Majesty, and the military formed in double line across the platform,
to prevent the entry of her Majesty. Her Majesty then drove round to the west front of
the Abbey, and the carriage drew up, when Lord Hood alighted to search for some ingress
to the Hall. Having found a gate in the rear of the Champion's stable, he returned, and
her Majesty, with her attendants, alighted.                      

 On reaching the gate the royal party were informed that this was no thoroughfare ; they
then proceeded to another passage which was open for persons with Peer's tickets. Here
an officer of the guard presented  himself, and half-drawing his sword,asked their authority
to pass, when Lord Hood presented a ticket, and they were allowed to pass the platform.
They then proceeded to the House of Lords, to try to enter the Hall; but were debarred
all ingress. They tried the passage leading into the Abbey from Poet's corner, and were
informed that none but persons with a regular ticket could be admitted. Lord Hood asked
whether they were aware that it was the Queen who sought admittance ? and her Majesty
twice repeated, " I am your Queen! I am your Queen !" The persons repeated their orders
were peremptory. Her Majesty then returned with her attendants  to her  carriage and they
drove off, amidst enthnusiastic cheers. The reception which her Majesty met with from
people of all ranks was most flattering, and shows the high estimation in which she is held.
  His Majesty entered the Hall about ten o'clock, accompanied by the Great Officers of
State, the Band playing God save the King. A gun was then fired, announcing his Majesty
having taken his seat. The regalia having been brought by the Lord Chancellor, the De-
puty Lord Chamberlain took up the several swords, sceptres, the orb, and crown, placing
them in the hands of those who were to carry them. Here follows the names of the differ-
ent articles and their bearers, with a long list of Dukes, Marquisses, Lords and Bishops,
who attended this earthly procession, which would only wear out the patience of any ra-
tional man to peruse.                                                                                             
  The whole having arrived, the Archbishop stood at the altar, having St. Edward's crown
before him, took the same into his hands, and consecrated and blessed it with the prayer,
" O God, who crownest thy faithful servants with mercy,"' &c. The Archbishop then took
the crown and placed it on the head of his Majesty, while the people, with loud and repeat-
ed shouts, cried " God save the King !" the trumpets sounding, the drums beating, and
the Tower and Park guns firing by signal. The acclamation ceasing, the Bishop pronounc-
ed the exhortation, " Be strong and of a good courage," &c. The choirs then sung the
following anthem, " The King shall rejoice in thy strength," &c. As soon as the  King
was crowned, the Peers put on their coronets the Bishops their caps, and the Kings of
Arms their crowns.
The eastern parts of London were quite deserted, and a stream of people was pouring to-
wards Westminster and the Parks. It was delightful to witness the peace and joy which
beamed on all around. Mr Sadler and a friend  ascended in a magnificent balloon from the
Green Park, It ascended perpendicnlarly, with the rapidity of a rocket, and had a grand
effect. All things went off quietly, and there were but few accidents, considering the vast
number of spectators assembled.                                      

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.