A New Method of Describing a Military
Ceremony †.



THE glitter of the richly embroider'd Colours waving in the breeze.
The unclouded Sun, shedding a mild lustre over all these.
The gradually swelling back ground, covered with shady trees,
On, or under, which sat many a spectator, more or less at ease.
A Parson most fervently praying, without receiving any fees,
In honeyed accents, as if he had swallowed a hive of Hyblean bees,
And quoting reasons for Reform, as thick as hail or pease;
Not of Boroughs, but of manners, gentle Reader, if you please.
Delivered on his legs, with an air, and very much at his ease.
Approving not of those, who make too frequent use of knees.
Applauding a good humour'd mob, for giving the female Graces a squeeze;
Because Graces, on such occasions, are apter to thaw, than to freeze.

NOW having partly tried the ees, let's have a touch a th' ums;
A termination more prolific, as for instance, drums.
(Tis not the Laird, but instruments made out of old Ram's bums;
And therefore safer far to beat, than foresaid Mr. Drum's.)
A clatter rais'd, which caus'd the old, cry, " Lord the Frenchmen comes.
The hungry dogs will eat us up, have mercy on our gums.
Our pots will never boil again, no smoke come from our lums.
They'll feed like Dives at our boards, and throw us but the crumbs.
And having fraterniz'd this land, they'll South in search of phumbs,
And if John Bull should hide his cash, they'll clap a screw on's thumbs,
A gentle mode of begging from, those folks who practise mums:"
But these alarms were quickly o'er, when VOLUNTEERS their chums
Paraded on that gallant day, to tweedle-dees and dums.
The business o'er, they met at four, at nine were no hum-drums.
At twelve, their senses were lock'd up, with guzzling wine and rums.
Now ye who write for public view, come pay me handsome sums,
And I will show ye how to 'void bombast and eke blaslums.

 †Vide Glasgow Courier of the 26th May,1795.THE   EDINBURGH

ROYAL   HIGHLAND   VOLUNTEERS.

A SONG...... Tune, Killicrankie.

I.

LET Frenchmen threat invasion great,
An' a' their venom shaw, man ;
Their threats are vain, while we remain
A firm an' sicker wa', man :
For gin they land on Scotland's strand,
Gude faith they'll get a fa', man,
Whan they engage the ancient rage
Of CALEDONIA, man.

II.

Whan CALEDON her graith puts on,
Amang her Bairns a', man,
Her faes, I fear, wad ne'er appear
Wi' her to shak'  a  fa', man.
What tho' they brag they'll gi'e's a jag ?
I wat they're unco slaw, man ;
Right eith they see what they wad dree
In CALEDONIA, man.

III.

Aft SCOTTISH might in unco fright
Has made them rin awa', man,
Tho' weel we ken, o' fechtin' men
They aye for ane had twa, man.
Then shall they daur approach our shore,
An' in our country craw, man ?
No !—or they'll rue that e'er they crew
In CALEDONIA, man.

IV.

Remember weel how WALLACE' steel
His en'mies crowns did claw, man,
An' ROBERT * brave, wi' trusty glaive,
Made tremble ane an' a', man :
Then by their blude, sae pure an' gude,
That thro' your veins does jaw, man,
Arouse in wraith, an' keep frae skaith
Auld CALEDONIA, man.

V.

O, MURRAY † bauld, thou vet'ran auld,
Thy sword o' mettle draw, man,
An' shaw's the way to clout our fae,
For that is British law, man.
Then, Piper John, screw up your drone,
An' martial pibroughs blaw, man,
While we advance for the defence
Of CALEDONIA, man.

* King Robert Bruce.                                           

† The Lieutenant-Colonel Commandant of the corps.

EXPLANATION   OF   THE   SCOTS   WORDS.

A, all                  Blude, blood            Fae, foe                  	Pibroughs, Highland 	Skaith, harm, injury
Aft, oft                Brag, boast             Fechtin, fighting         	airs which are play- 	Slaw, slow
Amang, among     	Claw, scratch          	Frae, from                  	ed on the bag-pipes 	Twa, two
An', and                Clout,to beat soundly 	Gin, if                         when the Caledo- 	Unco, very, strange
Ane, one               Craw, to crow         	Glaive (F.), sword      	nians go to battle    	Wa', wall
Auld, old               Daur, dare              Graith,accoutrements 	        Rin, to run             Wad, would
Awa', away            Dree, endure, suffer 	Gude, good              	Sae, so                 Wat, wot, to know
Bairns, children     	Drone, the bag-pipes 	Jaw, to run rapidly 		Shak' afa', to wrestle 	Weel, well
Bauld, bold           	Eith, easy              Jag, to prick           	Shaw, show              Whan, when
Blaw, blow            	Fa', fall               Ken, to know           	        Sicker, sure, steady    Wraith, wrath"THE BROKEN BOWL

RECITATION  _

AS RECITED BY A. ROBB, LATE OF THE 42nd REGIMENT

SCOTCH RECITER AND STORY TELLER.

WHAUR Neidpath's wa's wi'pride look doon
Upon a guid auld burgh toun,

Amang the guid auld freen's o' mine-
Amang the sib as sib could be-
But weel I wat ye sune sall see
She wasna ae drap's bluid tae me.

Ane o' the awfu' cleanin' kind,
That clean folk clean out o' their'mind :
An' aften as we've' seen betide,
Clean guid men frae their ain fireside.
A fykie, fashious, yammerin' yaud,
That cud the gear fu' steevely haud ;
An ill-set sour ill-willy wilk-
She had a face 'twad yearned milk,
Forbye a loud ill-scrapit tongue
As ere in harmless heid was hung.
To grin an' growl, to work an' flyte,
Was aye the ill-spun wisp's delight ;
0 heaven, I'm sure that Tibbie's meanin'
Was'ae great everlastin' cleanin'.
Frae morn tae nicht she ne'er was still-
Her life was like a teugh tread-mill.
She was jist like an evil-speerit,
She ne'er cud settle for a minute,
But when a dud she made or clootit,
Then a-' the toun wad hear about it

Whene'er folk couldna keep her clues,
She heckled them about their views ;
But when the wrath began to boil,
She grew real fear't about their sowl.
'Twas queer (but nocht sae queer as folk)
An' to the workin' she wad yoke
Thro' perfect spite an' fair ill-natur';
An' the deil's buckie o' a cratur'
Was o' the pipe a mortal hater.

John, honest man, had aye tae hap,
For peace sake, o'er the weeshen stap ;
But e'er the lintel he wad pass,
'Twas, ' Man, for gudesake, min' the bass
Tak' care o' this, tak' care O 'that,
Haud aff the hearth noo when it's wat,
When ance it's dry, syne tak' a heat;
Tak' care, man, whaur ye set your feet!
Fa' tae yer parritch, an' beware
Ye let nae jaups fa' on the flare ;
Weel o'er the bicker haud yer snout,
Nor fyle my weel-washed table clout.
To toil, noo, 'deed I'm no sae able,
Keep yer black dottle aff the table !

Wae's me ! but ye hae little thocht-
Ye never think hoo sair I'm wrocht
To hae things richt when hame ye come-
(Confound ye ! smoke it up the lum !)
Some men wad hae the sense tae say,
Ye'er sair forfouchen like the day-
Puir body ! 'od I'm sure ye're wearit,-
The like o' that wad gie ane speerit.
But you, whene'erye've clawed your croggie
Ye mak' this house a fair killogie.
Inower the door there's no a steek
But's pushioned wi' yer 'bacca reek ;
An' tho' I clocher till I'm chokin',
I winna' pit ye past yer smokin'.
What needs I toil ? what needs I care ?
Ye've blawn mair siller i' the air
Than wad hae built a house an' mair,
Yer neist gudewife 'll mend the matter-
She'll no be sic a tholin cratur';
She'll gie yer weel-hained gear the air,
My certie, man, she'll kaim yer hair !
An' wi' the saut blab in yer e'e,
Ye'll mind the patience I've haen wi' ye.
Dae ye want tae scomfish me ootricht ?
Ye've ne'er laid doon the pipe the nicht;
For a' I've said ye're never heedin'-
Begin, ye scoondrel, tae the readin'!'
Owre weel John kenned his his house was
clean,
An' keepit like a new-made preen ;
That a' frae end to end was bright,
For Tibbie toiled frae morn to nicht,
So he, to hain the weary wark,
Ance hired a lassie stout and stark-
A snod bit lassie, fell an' clever ;
But Tibbie was as thrang as ever.
Nae suner was the cleanin' through,
Than cleanin' just began anew.

Noo, on a bink, in stately pride,
Her favoured bowls stood side by side;
Braw painted bowls, baith big an' bonny-
Bowls that were never touched by ony :
For they were honoured vessels a',
And servile wark they never saw;
Save when a dainty she was makin'.
She whiles took ane her meal to draik in.

Ae day the lasssie, a' thing richtin',
Wi' canny care the bowls are dichtin',
An', puir thing ! tho' her care increases,
She braks ane in a thoosand pieces.

'What's that?' screeched Tibbie,  ' Losh

preserve us !

Is this the way the fremyt serves us ?
De'il speed the fummilin' fingers o' ye-
Ower Cuddy Brig I'll tak' an' throw ye,
Ye glaikit good-for-naething jaud.
Ye'll break us out o' house an' haud,
My fingers yuke to hae ye whakit-
Tell me, ye cutty, hoo ye brak it ?
Ye donnert slut! ye 'thoughtless idiot!
Tell me this minute hoo ye did it ?

In 'Embro' toun thae bowls were coft,
An' sax-an-twenty miles were brocht,
Weel packit up an' kindly carrit
An' gien tae me when I was marrit,
In name o' a' that e'er was wrackit,
In a' tho 'warl', hoo did ye brak-it !'

The lassie sabbit lang an" sair,
But Tibbie's tongue cud never spare ;
Loud was its clear an' wrathfu' tenor,     
When in John stappit to his dinner-
An' as he drew inower his seat,
Her tongue brak ower him like a spate;
He heard o' a' the sad disaster,
An' aye the tongue gaed fast an' faster;
An' aye cam' the ither growl-
Lassie hoo did ye brak the bowl!'             

Wheesht ! wheesht I quo' John, nae mair

about it

Odd sake ! ye've plenty mair without it.
But ere anither word was spoken-
Wi' face thrawn like a weel wrung stockin'-
She squeeled-'D'ye want to brak my heart?
Ye monster ! will ye tak' her part ?           

Is this my thanks for a' my toil ?              

Hoo cud the gipsy brak my bowl ?'            

Patient John heard the endless clack ;   
Till his twa lugs were like to crack ;         

An' risin', stappit to the shelf                  

Whaur whummilt stood the gaucie delf     
An' lookin' ower the precious raw,            

He raised the biggest o' them a',               

An', without steerin' aff the bit,               

Clash let the bowl fa' at his fit;               

An' as the frichtit flinders flew                 

Quoth he, 'Ye ken the way o't'noo,           

For sure as I'm a leevin sowl,                   

That's hoo the lassie brak the bowl'         P    O    E     M

O N                    

Lord   BLAKENEY's

Bravery at the Siege of MINORCA

MOST high omniscient great, dread Lord above,
The source of wisdom, God of Peace and Love;
Deign to assist thy Servant's feeble Pen,
Now writing of the worthy, best of Men,
A Subject copious, and extensive too,
His Enemies will own the Facts are true:
That Hero BLAKENEY, brave's the Man I mean,
Whose matchless Deeds are manisestly seen:
No Mortal Eloquence can them express,
So Good, so Great, so Many, Numberless !
Mers's only Son of high immortal Fame,                
Noprune's not worthy now to use thy Name,           
He's chang'd his Honour for eternal Shame.             
But glorious Mov's that Honour will retrieve,
And, under God, good News we shall receive:
He's ost' been tried, of him the Nation's sure,
A Hawks or Warrts, France could ne'er endure.
And tho' Lord Anson they so much admire,
His Lordship's Visits they do not require:
Bestawen too, their Darling and Delight,
Lov'd best by them when farthest out of Sight.
If these brave Men had been in t'other's Place,
The Nation had not suffer'd such Disgrace.
Oh! was he in a Trance ? What was he doing ?
With Force superior see the Nation's Ruin.
Fifty.two Cannons and the Weather Gage,
Enough to put the Devil in a Rage.
Let not Hibernia's Glory be forgot,                 
That Phanix bright, who never fear'd a shot:
When he the Flag first hoisted as a Token,
These gallant Words by Blakency bold were spoken.
There thou shalt stand, and ever there remain.
T ill all the French are gone, or I be slain!
I thought that B—g was sent to my Assistance
If he ne'er comes we'll make a stout resistance:
Let Balls, like Hailstones, briskly round them fly
Duke Richlieu and his Frenchman we desy.

Tho' long besieg'd doth unconcern'd appear,
As if no Enemies but Friends were there:
Marlborough said Eugene's Presence did inspire,
And Blakeney's did his Men with Vigour fire.
Powder and Ball pray give unto them Plenty,        
Bellona says, it is a wond'rous Dainty :                    
B—g, could not part with much 'twas choice orscanty. 
Things that are costly delicate and rare,                  
Things that are costly, delicate and rare,
Men love to keep, they seldom Will it spare.
Self-Preservation sure behoves us all,
A Misconstruction if he quotes St. Paul.
Says Blakancy, let B—g quote Paul or Apollo
To Sight like Briton is the Rule I'll follow ;
And what they came on Purpose for to crave,
Tho' Balls are costly, Soldier's let them have
All that unto the Garrison belongeth,
If we should nothing eat for a whole Month.
Be kind and civil to your GallieNeighbour,
Send them to Heav'n quick, from Toil and Labours,
He ost' in Scotland shew'd a manly Part,
Which won the sure Affections of the Heart:
At Stirling-Costle did support the same,
And of the Rebel's Army made his Game ,
Had Succours came he'd kept Minorca oill.
And made his Foes subsorvient to his Will.
Eight Years five Months I served in the Place,
But never thought that this would be the Case.
May Crowns of Laurels hence adorn his Seat,
And for his Country all his Joys compleat:
Whilst pin'd with Anguish his detracting Foes,
Distinguish more the Virtues they'd oppose:
May Hawks strike Terror to the Gallic Fleet,
And with th'Almighty's Help them fairly beat;
May he and Blakeney home come Hand in Hand,
'Twill cause great Joy and Triumph o'er the Land.
Then drink Sucess to all the British Fleet,
May they the French o'erthrow whene'er they meet.

Composed by the Bearer, William Catton, of St. Ann's, Westminister, who serv'd his Majesty fifteen Years and
six Days in General Folliott's Regiment of Foot, and was discharged at the Reducement.

Having no Pension, Trade, or Friend,
I'm turn'd poor Poet, in the End.A full and particular Account of some late Engagements with the Rebels, in which
they lost several hundred Men, copied from Letters, lately received from Gentlemen
in the Sutherland Fencibles, with many other particulars respecting the Proceedings
of his Majesty's Forces against the Rebels-also a Copy of a Letter from an Officer
at Wexford, giving an Account of some horrid Barbarities committed by the Insur-
gents before the Reduction of that Place, never  before known.

Extract of a Letter from a Gentleman in the Suther-
land Fencibles, to his Friend in Edinburgh, dated
Drogheda, July 22,

" Information having been received by our Gene-
ral, that the rebels were within a few miles of the
town, the General ordered our light company and
some troops of cavalry to meet them. The rebels,
however, were informed of our coming, which made
them retreat; and we marched from six in the even-
ing till five o'clock in the morning, when another
express informed, that the Rebels were within six
miles of us, plundering and burning all the Orange-
men's houses, we set off and pursued them for that day,
and next night, till the morning of the 14th, when they
formed a line of battle, and left their plunder behind
them. They only stood to fire one volley, and then
retreated; when we charged them, and the cavalry
surrounded them; no quarters, no mercy was shewn.
" General Wemyss came up with four companies
of our own Regiment, which encouraged the light
company to pursue the Rebels for the space of two hours.
It is reported there were 400 rebels killed on the spot,
and I believe it to be true, as they had no way to
escape,"

Another letter from a sergeant in the same regiment,

to his Friend in Glasgow.

" Our pursuit after the Rebels was for three days
and three nights without halting ; we, accompanied
by the Dumfriesshire cavalry, at last came up with
them, and engaged them for  four hours, and killed a
considerable number, which we could not exactly as-
certain, as the action happened in a corn field and a-
mong mosses. The rebels were supposed to amount
to 600, who were almost all killed ; about 30 of them
only escaped from the action; 10 of these we after-
wards took prisoners, and 4 of them were hanged on
our return home. General Wemyss, and all the Of-
cers, could not restrain our regiment. There was not
one of the Sutherlandmen hurt. The Dumfries ca-
valry had one killed an six dangerously wounded,"

Extract of a letter from Navan, dated July 20, giv-
ing an account of the late engagement with the re-
bels near Trim.

" Information having been brought on Wednes-
day, that a large body of the rebels were ravaging the
country beyond Trim, on Thursday morning, lieu-
tenant colonel Ord of the Durham, or Princess of
Wales Light Dragoons, with his own and captain
Usher's troop, marched from Navan and joined the
forces at Trim; about nine miles from it, they came
up with between three or four thousand of the rebels
—from the nature of the country, the cannon and in-
fantry could not get up, but the cavalry repeatedly
charged them in the rear, killed a great many, and
took considerable booty; in the evening, however,
their main body got away. Our troops having re-
ceived a reinforcement from Drogheda, the rebels
were pursued and overtaken on Saturday forenoon, at
a place called Williamstown ; they were charged by
the advanced guard of cavalry, and drove out of the
town with dreadful slaughter; the infantry attacked
their flanks, and killed a great many; the whole body
of the rebels were completely dispersed and defeated;
no prisoners were taken, The rebels sometimes
fought desperately I saw some of them, when sur-
rounded, and having fired away all their ammunition,
continue throwing stones till they were cut down.

" Near Ballyriggen, it is mentioned, the yeo-
manry of that neihbourhood came up with a party of
rebels, and killed  200 of them."

 Extract  of a letter from an Officer of the Regi-
ments stationed at Wexford, to his friend in Edin-
burgh, dated Wexford, July 19.
" We have been hard worked for these last six
weeks.   For more than three of these I have not had
off my clothes, and a little straw and a blanket has been,
my constant bed, and that sometimes in the open
fields, and others only with a soldier's tent over me.
We are now tolerably quiet, and hardly expect to be
again troubled with the Croppies- The numbers of
the Rebels under arms in this county were immense,
there could not be less than 60,000 in their different
camps, and these mostly with pikes.    In the different
actions our loss has been very trifling compared to
theirs.    The proportion of Officers to men has been
out of all bounds, they constantly making us their
chief aim.    The aspect of this country is dreadful,
Not a house except in this  neighbourhood, either in
the villages or country, that is not either burnt to the
ground or plundered of every thing—the former more
frequently.    I do not think I saw ten men in the
whole county that were not with the Rebels, and not
one person at work in the fields.    The destruction of
cattle has been beyond all  bounds; those vagabonds
frequently merely eating one leg of a cow, and leav-
ing the remainder to rot in the fields.    Their cruel-
ties have exceeded all belief in a country called Chris-
tian.    The day before we took this place, they car-
ried from the jail to the bridge ninety-two Protestant-
gentlemen and others, whom they piked with the
most refined cruelty, beginning at the extremities and
joints, and not the vital parts, for a considerable length
of time.    One man in particular they thus piked, and
left him lying in the street all night: In the morning
they found him alive and again begun by stabbing him
in the old wounds before they gave him the mortal
stab.    Another, a Mr. Sparrow, one of the most re-
spectable Gentlemen in town, after murdering him
they threw him over the bridge so at low water you saw
him, mangled in a most inhuman manner,    All this,
however, you will cease  to  wonder at, when  I tell
you that on the morning of the day we took Enniscor-
thy and Vinegar Hill, when they found they were
likely to be driven from the town, to prevent their
sick and wounded from falling into our hands, and
their making discoveries, they set the house on fire,
and left the whole of these poor wretches to be con-
sumed in the flames.    Our garrison is composed of
the 2d and 29th foot, the Dumbartonshire Fencibles,
and Mid Lothian Cavalry.    We are basied daily in
trying and hanging the Rebels    many wealthy men.
have been already tucked up.    Their property, it is
imagined, will go to pay, in part, the losses of the
poor loyalists.—-Gen. Lake having offered pardon to
those Rebels who would give up their leaders and sur-
render their arms, many have taken advantage of this
offer,  and returned   to   their common  avocations
within these few days, I am afraid more from necessity
than good intentions.    In some of their actions the
Rebels ran up to the very mouths of the cannon and
were blown to atoms.—-This, however, did not deter
others from attempting the same frequently in the
some actions; their Priests, who headed them, by
promising no harm, and a thousand other lies, thus
urging them on.    One of these worthy prelates took
up a handful of dust, and blowing it into the air, told
them,  that a bullet  would make  no more  im-
pression on them than that dust.

" This they were soon convinced, however, was
a mistake; for he amongst many others, were left
dead  on the field."