A

POEM

On the  RACE of Leith, Oc
tober, Twenty Second.

To   the   Praise    of the
HIGHLAND LADIE

I HEAR a Horse Race lately Run,
Was into Leith where no Man wan
Untill a Highland Ladie
Came up foremost with a Bay Brown,
Which all thought was a Jad,

Next after him came Fedbrugh's Horse,
Whom all Man thought could ne're
And afrer came 'Squair Lyle, (loss.
Who thought as he had done before ;
His Nage would never spoil.

But like a Jad he sell behind,
And never could the right Foot find.
Neither for Spur, nor yet for Bridle,
So that to bring his York-shire here,:
Thinking to carr'd off fairlie.

Scots Lads & their Bay-Broun-Nages,
Thinks nothing of the York-shire,
But Run them down all over,
Altho they think for to prevail,
Yet they come last of all,

And Lyle that won't to be the first,
Comes now next almost to the last,
And can not his Horse recover.
Therefore I hope He'l never strive
To  Run with Scots Horse after,

Again because our Scots Horse be
Swifter than the Yorkshire Gray,
Who boast of gaining Races,
    In any Ground where they are  found
Yet come off with short PacesBATTLE

BETWEEN

Simon Byrne

AND

DEAF BURKE



A Full, True, and Particular Account of that most Desperate and
Well Fought BATTLE which took place between SAM BYRNE
and DEAF BURKE, on Thursday last, 150 miles on this side of
London upon the Great North Road, for L.150 a side,—when Deaf
Burke was declared Champion, after a desperate battle of 27 rounds,
which lasted one hour and fifteen minutes.

This long-appointed battle took place on Thursday last, about 150
miles from London upon the Great North Road, ana was attended by
all the principal amateurs of the London Ring, and came happily off
without the interference of the beaks. Heavy bets were laid on both
sides, and thousands were lost and won upon the occasion,—the odds, if
any, being in favour of Burke. Both men had been in active train-
ing ; they seemed to be in high spirits, and appeared to have been in
good keeping. Byrne weighed 9 stone 10 lbs., Burke 9 stone 2 lbs.

At the. time appointed, the combatants entered the ring, accompanied
by their seconds and bottle-holders, each uncovering themselves, and
throwing their castors in the air, amid the shouts of the spectators, and,
after shaking mawleys, took their positions, and prepared for action.

Round 1. Both men displayed great science. After some excellent
sparring, Byrne was floored by a left handed blow on the listener.

Rounds 2 and 3.    Byrne slipped from the heavy hits of his opponent.

Round 4. Good fighting: Burke jobbed cleverly, and threw down
his man, after having stood his ground well for five minutes.

Round 5. Severe exchanges right and left Byrne caught an un-
lucky hit on the potatoe-trap, which brought him to the ground.

Round 6. Burke hit Byrne a left bander on the dexter ogle, which
made it blush like a full blown rose, and threw down his man.

Rounds 7, 8, and 9. Lively work; tiddey tipping on both sides; and
game shewn to the entire approbation of the fancy.

Round 10. Both to work at close in-fighting. Burke lending a hit
at Byrne's victualling-shop, had it returned on his bread-basket; but on
coming to close fight, Byrne slipped down.

Rounds 11 to 14     Byre down, mostly slipping.

Round 15 Counter jobbing. Byrne's pepper-box shewed occular
demonstration of heavy work from his adversary, who floored him at
full length by a heavy left hander on the bread-basket.

Rounds 16 and 17. Good fighting. Burke jobbed cleverly, throwing
down his man. Byrne seemingly getting weak.

Round 18. Sparring for wind, displaying great caution. Byrne
floored his man by a right hander on the listener.

Rounds 19 to 22. Light fighting and slight hits from both parties.
All in favour of Burke, who kept his ground well, without shewing
many marks of heavy punishment, except on one of his peepers.

Round 23. Burke lent Byrne a tremendous blow on the mug, which
now began to look rather queer.

Round 24. All in favour of Burke, who was now tremendously
cheered. The betting high in his favour.

Round 25. Byrne made a desperate effort to turn the day ; and,
going in wildly, struck right. He was met nobly by Burke, who stopt
his thrusts, and lent him on the smeller, which sent him down.

Rounds 26 and 27. All in favour of Burke. Byrne had no chance ;
he was most desperately punished,—but again came up to the scratch.

Round 28. Byrne could scarcely stand on his pegs ; but, pluck to
the last, aimed a hit at Burke's pepper-box, but missed, and received
a counter hit on his potatoe trap, when he fell into the arms of his
seconds, completely exhausted.

Edinburgh,—Printed for Francis M'Cartney.

.Life in Edinburgh!

A full, true and particular account of the narrow
escape of a Gentleman from a Den the Grass-
market, who was nearly Burked by a crew of
noted characters, well known in this city, he hav-
ing been seized by the throat by a man and a
number of women, who, after losing his coat-
tails, and being severely wounded, with difficulty
made his escape.—(Told by Himself.)

I, W. R--------n, was sorely abused, taken in, and
very nearly Burked, last week, by a gang of Thim-
blemen, Tinkers, Cadgers, Lazy Craftsmen, Petty
Chapmen, with other characters very like Resur-
rection Men, &c. Having got a little of the ' nappie,'
and being on a cruize down the Grassmarket, I
met a group of strange personages at a certain close
mouth, which leads to a well known den. Making
a stand there, I was eagerly gripped by a female—
taken up the close, where three fellows, very like
pickpockets, soon followed after, and rushed into
my company. I soon found where I was, and
on taking a thought, I attempted to get out of the
den, but was stopt by a blade with a cork leg. I
fortunately took the feet from him, and left him
on the floor. I was then seized by a carved faced
randy, who tore the tails from my coat. I got out—
took to my heels—and very narrowly escaped.

This adventure ought to be a warning to flats
like myself, to go home in good hours, and speedily
join the ' Temperate Society.'

In Edinburgh city there's one does live,
A curious blade he seems to prove—
A furious neighbour—here he is,
And scarcely worthy of hie place.
In the Grassmarket he has his rook
In A....'s close, in a hidden nook,;
A' kinds of folk he does take in,
Makes muckle siller—O horrid din.
Whores and thieves, and jolly beggars,
Packmen and tinkers around him stagger
And gi'es him siller each day to plank,
I daresay in the devil's bank.
He has beds from twopence to a shilling,
It was a curious plan made by a villain ;
To get his living frae poor folk,
The shaver thinks he is nae joke.
He had a wife, a regular randy,
Who did like whisky, rum and brandy ;
.  She cut her stick wi' a thimbleman,
For sake of drink it was her plan.
There is many a one comes to his house,
Wha thinks they are o' muckle use,
That's perfect blackguards like himsel',
And on the very road to hell.
This while he has been very thrang,
And made a purse baith braid and lang;
He has bought a house in the West Port,
Where Burk and Hare used to resort.
Good people, keep frae yon rough den,
In case that you be taken in.
The owner of it has been a foe
To many decent man, you know,
He was confederate to Burk and Hare,
His countrymen he loved dear;
Burk's death gave him muckle grief,
Since that he has scarcely got relief.
His laird he is a drunken chieftain,
Wi drink be is very often  ristin';
The tenant gi'es him oft a glass
Of whisky o' the very best.
There was a man they say was killed,
With pish and liquor so distilled ;
But now since syne its turned out
That cork-leg done the deed's, nae doubt.
It was proved just immediately after,
Which to many was great laughter,
To think a cripple soul would do it,
Perhaps he surely yet may rue it.
He wears a white hat on his  head,
He does not set it weel Indeed ;
A dandy coat o' bottle green.
Upon the blade is often seen.
My friends be erer on your guard,
O' yon hangman looking  soul mislear'd,
In case ye wander there at night,
And never see the morning light.

Edinburgh :-Printed for W. R.—.Mackay Poisoned!!

It is now firmly believed that Sandy was hocussed, as they term
it in the fancy, and the wretch who administered the soporific drug
is unhesitatingly named through all the sporting houses.

There are two stones told regarding how the diabolical deed was
accomplished. One says, that it was given to Sandy a little before
he entered the ring ; and another says, that during one or other of
the wrangles about the foul play, that the incendiary took an op-
portunity to change the water-bottle used by Mackay's seconds, and
to substitute one containg poison, It is likewise said that Tom
Crib had partaken partially of the sleeping draught —Glasgow Free
Press.............It is stated, that on Friday last, Mackay's body was
raised and inspected by two surgeons, when two ounces of lauda-
num was found in his stomach, which prove that he had been wil-
fully poisoned by some person or other.

STAFFORD, 7th June 1830.....This day, Barney M'Guire of
whom mention is repeatedly made, in the life of the cele-
brated David Haggart, who was executed in Edinburgh, in Scot-
land, a few years ago, for the murder of the Dumfries Jailor there,
underwent the last sentence of the law here, for murder and rob-
bery. M'Guire may be well remembered by the public, to have been
transported for a limited term of years, for highway robbery in a
public fair at Appleby, which period was not expired ; but, at the
loss of the Hulk Dolphin, on board of which he was confined as a
convict, in the river Medwey in November last, he made his escape,
and afterwards arrived in London, where he commenced operations
in his old line. He entered into several shops, on pretence of pur-
chasing some articles of clothing, trinkets, jewellery, &c., and al-
ways contrived to secrete about his person, and carry off, various
articles of goods, money, &c., when he came away. Barney watched
his opportunity, on one occasion, and entered the shop of a wealthy
Jew in Rosemary Lane, where lay, in a window, a great variety of
gold coin of various countries and reigns, as also several silver
articles, all of which Barney contrived to carry off at his departure.
He declared this to be the masterpiece of his performances since
his escape from the Dolphin.

He left London early the next morning for Newcastle, under the
ficticious name of James Williamson, where he met with several of
his old companions, who were heartily glad to see him once more
at liberty, and from whom he met with a very warm and affection-
ate reception. He immediately commenced operations, and boldly
took to the highway, the very next day after his arrival at New-
castle. He robbed one gentleman of his pocket book, containing
upwards of £60, and several bills, and took a purse from another,
the same day, containing ten or twelve sovereigns, and some silver,
declaring he had nothing in his hands at the time but a snuff box,
shaped somewhat like a pistol. He then returned to his haunt in
Newcastle, where he divided his spoil with his merry companions,
and ate and drank with them while it lasted. He next robbed a
gentleman of a gold watch, chain and seals, is Sandgate, in open
day, of which he soon disposed. After this he went to Kendal,
where he purchased a brace of pistols, and a prad, (horse) being
determined to be prepared for a glorious campaign. While he re-
mained in Kendal, he broke into the shop of Messrs G. Watson
and Son, clothiers and general merchants ; but, being taken in the
act, he turned round and shot Mr Watson, who he killed on the
spot. He was pursued by the son, and was taken near Stafford,
where he was committed to prison to await his trial at the Assizes.
Being tried at the last assizes for this county, he was convicted of
the murder of Mr Watson, and was sentenced to he executed on
the first market day, and Ms body to be given for dissection, Since
his condemnation, he made the above confessions and declarations
to the reverend ordinary of our jail.

Accordingly, on this fatal day, this celebrated ill-fated man was
brought out to the scaffold, about eight o'clock in the morning.
He stept to the front of the platform, and addressed the multitude
very fervently for several minutes; exhorting them to refrain from
drinking—from the company of lewd and bad women—and from
profane swearing. He said he richly deserved death for the many
crimes he had committed; and, indeed, says he, ' I have been even
teacher and a father to wickedness and wicked men;' alluding to
the connection subsisting between him and that extraordinary
character, the late well known and celebrated David Haggart, as
well as to two other companions he had. After which he mounted
the fatal drop firmly, where he spent a few minutes in fervent
prayer, and then dropt the signal and was instantly launched into
eternity, amidst a vast concourse of spectators.

Printed for William Rebertson...Price One Penny.

L     I    S     T

O F   T H E

NOBILITY AND GENTRY

Who appeared at the BALLS at

KELSO    RACES,
OCTOBER 1783.

A                            

MR ASKEW of Pallinsburn      
Mr Anstruther Paterson       
Mrs Anstruther Paterson                

B                              

Duke of Buccleugh                          
Dutchess of Buccleugh                    
Hon. George Baillie                        
Miss Baillie                                        
Miss Betty Baillie                            
Sir James Baird                                
Lady Baird                                       
Sir Francis Blake                               
Lady Blake
Mrs Blake                                    
Lady Elizabeth Boyle                  
Mr Baird of Newbyth                  
Mr Bruce of Stenhouse                
Miss Bruce                                   
Miss ------ Bruce                          
Mrs Brisbane of Brisbane
Mr Boswell of Blackadder

C

Mr Collingwood of Unthank
Mrs Collingwood
Miss Collingwood
Miss Isabella Collingwood
Miss Ann Collingwood
Captain Collingwood
Miss Campbell of Ballymore
Miss Chartres
Mr Clark
Mr Clavering

D

Sir Alexander Don
Lady Harriet Don
Miss Don
Mr Douglas of Douglas
Lady Frances Douglas
Sir James Douglas
Lady Helen Douglas, Spring-
wood Park
Lady Isabella Douglas
Lady Helen Douglas
Miss Douglas
Captain George Douglas
Captain Archbald Douglas
Dr Douglas
Mr Dundas M'Queen
Major Dickson
Mrs Dickson
Captain Don
Captain Dalrymple
Mr Davidson                               
Mr Dawson                                  

E                         

Lord Elphinstone                        
Hon. William Elphinstone           
Hon   Keith Elphinstone
Hon. Mrs Elphinstone                  
Hon. Miss Elphinstone
Sir William Erskine
Commodore Elliot
Miss Earl

F

Sir William Forbes of Craigievar
Mr Forster
Mrs Forster
Mr Forster, jun.
Mr Fenwick

G

Lord Gray
Hon. Mr Gordon
Miss Gauden
Miss Gee
Miss Gascoigne
Mr Gregson

H

Earl of Hadinton
Earl of Home
Countess of Home
Lady Eleonora Home
Hon. Colonel Hamilton
Sir Henry Hay Makdougall
Lady Hay Makdougall
Sir Archibald Hope
Lady Hope
Miss Hope
Miss Graham Hope
Miss Elizabeth Hope
Miss Hume of Ninewells
Mr Houston of Jordan Hill
Mr Houston
Mr Haggart

J

Mrs Johnston of Hilton
Miss Johnston
Dr Jackson
Miss Jackson

K

Mr Ker of Littledean
Mrs Ker
Mr Walter Ker
Capt. Knatchbull of the Navy

L

Mr Langlois
Mr Lambert

M

Duke of Montagu
Sir James Murray
Mr Marjoribanks
Mrs Marjoribanks
Miss Marjoribanks.
Miss------Marjoribanks
Miss  M'Kenzie
Mr Mure
Capt. John Macdougall

N

Capt. Nisbet Hamilton
Mr Nicolson Stewart

O

Mr Oliver of Dinlabyre

P

Sir James Pringle
Miss Pringle
Capt. Pringle of the Navy
Capt. John Pringle
Mrs Proctor

R

Duke of Roxburgh
Admiral Roddam
Mrs Roddam
Mr Roddam
Major Rtuherfurd
Lieutenant Rutherfurd
Mr Renton of Lamerton
Colonel Reid
Captain Riddell
Mr Rannie

S
Earl of Selkirk
Countess of Selkirk                 
Sir John Scott
Mr Schaw Stewart
Mr Scott of Gala
Miss Scott
Captain Scott
Mr Hugh Scott
Mr Smith

T

Miss Todd
Captain Thomson of the navy
Mr Trotter of Bush

W

Sir Peter Warrender
Miss Wauchope
Captain Wood
Captain Wilkie

Total 138

KELSO: PRINTED BY JAMES PALMER.A LIST of the SPORTING LADIES,

Who are arrived in EDINBURGH, from all the different
Towns in the Three Kingdoms, to take their Pleasure
at KELSO RACES.

MISS MARY SCOT, from Glasgow came,
a clever, hearty, bucksome quean ;
Arrived here to take her chance :
at sport or play, who well can dance.
But with no man she will agree,
but with the best of Qualitie.

Miss Jeany Reid, from Dundee,
as pretty a girl as e'er you did see:
Her temper it is kind and free,
and always keeps good company.

Miss Betty Brown, from Perth town,
she is a handsome pretty lass,
with any man she will take a glass.

Miss Peggy Bain, from Aberdeen,
as bonny a lass as e'er was seen.

Miss Nell Graham, from Montrose,          
beautiful and blooming as any rose.
        
Miss Jenny Dow, from Kirkcaldy came,
she is the flower of all Scotland.

Miss Mally Stewart, from Stirling town,
cloathed in silk, the toast of all the town.

Miss Baby Hall, from Dunbar,
the flower of all the East country.

Miss Sally Ross, from Haddington,
who would not kiss for half a crown.

Miss Beanie Burt, from Prestonpans,
she has two quick and nimble hands,

Miss Bell M'Nair, a bucksome fair,
who in sporting always had her share.

Miss Christy Skeen, who has too clever been,
and always ready, to act the pleasure lady.

Miss Fanny More whom Gentlemen
does much adore.

Miss Dolly Small, as pretty a Lady
as any of them all.

Miss Mackiver, who is handsome,
tall and cliver.   

Miss Mackay, a lovely lady,
in sporting she is always ready.

Miss Macksun, who stands alone,
will show you sport or all be done,

Miss Mackdonald, a clever dame,
for to sport she thinks no shame.

Miss Gall, she is both straight and tall,
as pretty as any of them all.

Miss Macdonald from Dublin city,
who is both tall and very pretty.

Miss Smith, come from London city,
she looks so well, she needs no ditty.

Miss Butler from the city of York,
she's likewise come to join the sport;
She is both  bonny,  blyth  and, gay,
and has come here some  time to stay.

N. B.  Those who want any of the above Ladies, may call for them at Moffat's Close,
High-street   Edinburgh.  