SUICIDE

AND

MURDER!

A particular account of the unfortunate Miss Eliza-
beth Wilson, a female of seduction.

ELIZABETH WILSON, a respectable farmer's daughter, near
Kirkaldy, in the county of Fife, being of a beautiful appearance,
she was courted by several young gentlemen of respectability, who
used every means in their power to make her comply, but her
mind revolted at the idea of such proceedings. She lately formed
a correspondence with a uobleman from the North, far above her
station in life, who held out many false promises, till at last she
complied to his wishes. He kept her for sometime, and afterwards
left her in poverty. Being in this wretched situation, she took the
fatal resolution of putting an end to her life by poison, but before
taking it; she wrote three letters, two of which follow:

'Dear Sir, The life that you have  made so miserable is now
'near an end ; I wish not to upbraid you, but wish every pro-
sperity towards you.                             E. W.'

'Dear Sister....I let you know that the time is come which will
'put an end to all my sufferings;  and before you receive this, I
'will be no more.                                                            E. W.'

She then swallowed the poison, and soon died in the  greatest
agony, about 3 o'clock on Friday morning.

The above letters were found at her lodgings shortly after she
had taken the fatal draught, one of which, by desire of her friends,
was kept secret. This lamentable occurrence ought to be a warn-
ing to young women from the delusion of persons above  their rank.

Execution at Derby on Monday last.

AT the last   Assizes held here, JANET COOPER,  aged 34, was
indicted for the murder of her step daughter, a girl of seven years
of age, by locking her up in a cellar for six days and nights, with-
out provisions, by which means the poor girl had died in the most
deplorable  situation,  after having eat some of the straw on which
she was lying. The evidence clearly proved that she was the per-
petrator of this dreadful and unparalleled atrocity. The Jury, with-
out any hesitation, found her guilty.    The Judge  then  proceeded
for to pass the  sentence of Death, and directed that  she should be
executed  or Monday first, and that her body should be given for
dissection. He most earnestly exhorted  her to make preparations
for another world, and remarked, 'that  she  was one of the most
cruel and wicked women that ever had  come  under his observa-
tion;'  he also said,  'that the sentence should  be put in execution,
for a certainty, she should  be made a public example, if ever one
was.'   She  conducted herself with firmness during her trial, but
afterwards showed some  symptoms of despair, and seemed to re-
flect on former  base and  wicked  conduct.    She never confessed
till the night before  her Execution, when she fully acknowledged
that  she  had committed  the  murder, and that her sentence was
just. The chaplain of the jail paid  every  attention to her during
her imprisonment, to whose exhortations she  paid great attention,
but  seemed  afraid  to meet the awful fate which she was doomed
to suffer. The  night before  her execution, she was waited on by
three clergymen, who commenced prayer, in which she joined with
fervency ; she was also visited  by some of her relatives, a few
days previous to her execution, the parting scene was very affecting
to every person present.

Shortly after 12 o'clock, she melancholy ascended the scaffold,
 where a most fervent prayer was given by the Rev. Mr Thomson;
a portion of a hymn being also sung, the unfortunate culprit made
an attempt to address the crowd, but their yells against her were
so tremendous, that she failed. She had two children of her own,
the youngest of which she requested for to see before she departed
this life; it was brought by order of the Sheriff, and the scene was
very affecting. The child being taken from her, she prayed very
earnestly for a few minutes, when she dropt the signal and was
launched into eternity. After hanging nearly an hour, her body
was out down, and given to the Surgeons for dissection.,

Printed by W, Robertson ....Price Ond Penny.

An Account of the Life and
Transactions of Mr Richard-
son, late Minister at Largs,
how he committed Suicide,
by cutting his own throat.

IT is with regret that we announce to the public, and more so to
those who knew the above-described person. He was a young man
lately placed as Minister of the parish of Largs, well beloved by all
his hearers and all who knew him, promising in appearance, and
benevolent in all his ways. We do not wish to comment on such
a subject Farther than we have proper grounds, being of such a del-
icate nature,  which we suppose prevented the Editors of the differ-
ent newspapers from commenting much upon it. We can only state
the caue, which is reported in this place; he being but lately mar-
ried, and before which period had formed a contract with another 
 young woman in terms of marriage to her also; but the latter find-
ing that she was slighted, as is commonly the case with many of
her sex in the same way, consequently took it very much to heart,
and finding she was pregnant by him, sent the following letter :

" False Lover,-It was more than I would have expected from
your hand, and more so from the calling you profess ; a wolf in
sheep's clothing indeed. God and your own conscience knows your
false vows and protestations to me, which will yet be required at
your hand, where self-denial will not clear the guilty. You may
shudder at the thought, were you to take a proper view of the situa-
tion in which you stand. But, alas, too late I am justly blameable
of myself to forfeit my reputation, for from that moment I also for-
feited all claim of respect to depend upon your false gratitude. But
still I must remind you my character is not all, yours is also at the
stake. The loss of a friend may be overcome, but the loss of a cha-
racter still remains a stain, by which man or woman may become
universally shunned, universally slighted. But perhaps you have a
ready remedy to use with policy, and so to guard all outward ap-
pearance, and never to want this negative testimony on your side,
that the world knows no evil of you. But rest assured they will
not be covered with a cloak of darkness neither here nor hereaf-
ter. Be not deceived, though perhaps from the inward workings
and dreams, with the impression strong on your brain, you may
think yourself a chosen vessel, sanctified within, and sealed up un-
to the perfect day. But an unjust seal will not stand when the
coat of arms upon it is a counterfeit, and a guilty conscience is a
strong evidence against itself. Had you but taken a view of my
parentage down to my own character, you would neither found spot
nor blemish, but as pure as this paper on which I discharge my
mind to you. Industrious as your own were, you have to thank
mine for a part of that education and the rank of a gentleman that
you now hold, in which office you are placed a teacher of the flock,
which I fear is not in a safe fold to be committed to such a shep-
herd ; and you have found out the art by a proper management of
light and shade to compound these vices together, so as to give
body and strength to the whole, whilst no one but a dicerning ar-
tist is able to discover the labours that join in finishing the pic-
ture ; and, indeed, like many other bad originals in the world, it
stands in need of all the disguise it has, for who could, be ena-
moured of a character made up of so loathsome a compound. Could
you behold it naked in its crooked and deformed shape, with all
its natural and detested infirmities laid open to public view, then
you might loath at your own false heart and deluding tongue. So I
conclude by leaving you to your own meditations. "

Such is an outline of the letter which the above Mr Richardson
received the evening in which he committed the horrid deed upon
the 12th of October last, which ever since has led to discord with
both parties of friends connected with the family. She produced
letters from his own hand, in consequence of what she had stated,
and one of which was sent to her only about a week before his
marriage to the other young lady, still declaring his constancy to
the latter.-There is nothing we can state to have been the cause
of this unhappy man's revenge of himself, by putting an end to his
existence, only what we have already said ; and in this case we see
that all mankind is fallible. He was much beloved in his ministe-
rial office, both for great talent and sound dcctrine, and by ap-
pearance attentive to his duty in every respect. But there is no-
thing in which the mind of man is more divided than in the ac-
count of his horrid nature; for when we consider man so fashioned
by his Maker's will, so full of the tenderest dispositions of heart,
yet it soon deviseth evil of itself, of which it is hard to account.
                                                                                                                             Printed for James Thomson.

Awful Suicide                                                                

A full and particular Account of the Abduction of a
Young Lady, and awful Suicide committed by a
Captain M. on Saturday last, near Stratford; with
an account how the Lady was providentially saved
from being murdered by him.—Edin. Courant.

A young lady, of considerable personal attractions and now about
nineteen years old, and who, on coming of age, will be entitled to an
independent fortuue of her own of about five hundred pounds a-year,
living  in great respectability with her father at Kensington, had been
for some time persecuted with the addresses and attention of Captain
M., who had in some measure been received by her family as a suitor
for her hand. He had, however, lately shown considerable jealousy
of her, and had displayed much violence of temper. On Saturday
last, Miss------had been making a morning call on a lady in the
neighbourhood, whose husband returned home with her to her
father's house, and, in a very short time after, Captain M. arrived,
and, on learning she had just returned home, accompanied by a
gentleman, betrayed the greatest agitation and passion, and, pro-
ducing a brace of pistols from his pocket, declared to Miss------,
that, had he met her with the gentleman, he would have blown his
brains out with one pistol and have destroyed himself with the o-
ther. He then urged her, as a proof of her sincerity, to take a walk
with him. She, however, became alarmed at his violence, and en-
deavoured to excuse herself; she, however, by his threats and inti-
midations, at length consented to go, but her alarm was so great,
that under an excuse of arranging some parts of her dress, she had
an opportunity of retiring for a few minutes, during which time
she desired her man-servant to follow her wherever she went, with-
ont letting Captain M. observe him, and should she be obliged to
get into a coach, he was to take one also, as she was alarmed at
Captain M.'s conduct. They had not walked far before she was
put into a coach by Captain M. ; the servant, however, could not
find another coach to get into, but, at the instant, an omnibus go-
ing the same way, he got into it, thinking he should be able to
keep the coach in sight; in this, however, he did not succeed, and
on coming into the city lost all trace of his young mistress. In
the meantime Captain M. took her from the coach to a Stratford
stage in Leadenhall Street, in which they weni to the Eagle and
Child at Forest Gate, about a mile beyond Stratford ; after they had
been there some time, he again persuaded her to take another walk
in the country, not before she had strong fears of his intending
something dreadful Afcer walking down the lane nearly as far as
Maryland Point, he became suddenly ill, and calling to her to come
to him, fell down. She, however, ran from him, imploring assist-
ance ; he constanly calling out to her to come to him. The only
person ne r at the instant, was an Irish woman, who Miss------
begged would help the gentleman ; he, however, refused to be as-
sisted by her, and called the more, " Mary Ann, Mary Ann, it is
you I want near me ;" at the same time feeling for something at
his breast, under his coat. His illness increased, and by this time
assistance arrived, and he was cenvcyed back to the Eagle and
Child, where he acknowledged having taken laudanum, and under
his coat was discovered a dagger, with which he intended to make
Miss------his victim. The laudanum taking effect sooner and
stronger than he expected, was the cause of her escape from this
horrid project. Mrs Mosely, the landlady of the Eagle and Child,
on his being brought; back, recollected hearing him say as he went
out, to Miss------, " Never mind, Mary Ann, our troubles in this
life will soon be over, and then we shall be happy in the next"
Medical assistance being immediately sent for from Stratford, Dr
Elliott and his assistant soon arrived, and although every means
were resorted to in order to save his life, the quantity of laudanum
he had taken was too powerful, although the stomach pump was
used within as short a time as possible.

Dr Elliott remained with him the whole night, and at 3 o'clock
on Sunday morning he died in the greatest agonies. The situation
of Miss -----, who was in the anjoining room, was scarcely less
pitiable; her friends, however, from what little information the
servant had been able to give, had by this time traced where she
was, and soon afterwards a gentleman conveyed her back to her
father's house. The most remarkable part of this dreadful affair is,
that after his deat, Miss------and her friends for the first time dis-
covered that he was a married man, and has a wife living. An
inquest was held on Tuesday on his body, at the Eagle and Child.

Edinburgh : Printed for John Lyons.—Price One Penny.

Fatal Love!

Warning to Lovers.

A Full and Authentic ACCOUNT of a most Mclancholy
and Extraordinary occurrence of FATAL LOVE,
which took place at Kincardine, on Thursday last;
together with a COPY of the Very affecting LETTER,
which was found in the young Woman's bosom
after she was out down, and which fully explains
the cause of her committing this rash and fatal act

On Thursday last, Miss M'C-------n, daughter of a respectable gen-
tleman in Kincardine, was found suspended from the ceiling of her
own room. She made use of a scarf for the purpose: she rose that
morning very early, and one of the servants in passing her room
heard a noise ; she went to see, but was struck on beholding the
young lady suspended from the ceiling ; she called for assistance,
which soon arrived, but the lamp of life had ceased to burn, and
nothing was left but to weep at her untimely and rash conduct.
At her father's death, she would have fallen heiress to an income
of about  £400 a-year. A West Indian Captain caused this rash
act, he having held out promises which he never intended to fulfil,
and who sailed for the West Indies before her remains were laid in
the silent grave,

The following beautiful and interesting lines was found in her
bosom next morning, after she was cut down :....

" Dear CAPTAIN,....If my exhausted spirits would support my
trembling hand, whilst I write a few lines to ease a broken heart, it
would be the last office I would require them to do. Then may
they leave me: then may I find in my grave a retreat from the
scoin of men. How is my gold become dim, and my most fine
gold become drass. I do not now command you by the awful
name of virtue to accuse you of the basest ingratitude, ah no, the
scene is entirely changed ; you have robbed me, cruelly robbed
me of the brightest gem in the female character, and I come as an
humble supplicant. Is this possible—am I awake, or do I dream ?
Ah ! poor deluded girl, think not what you are; how can I rest
from calling to remembrance those days of innocence and peace,
when, with a sincere countenance and sincere heart, I could look
up to heaven, and beg that the God of purity would be my pro-
tector ;....but ah ! how am I changed, how is my virtue faded, how
doth conscious guilt fill my soul, whilst blushes cover my face ; sad
reflections on my present state hurry me to meditate on the future;
which opens so tremendous a scene to my views, as to strike me
back in doleful remembrance of the past time.

If I fly to my parents, who were once all my comfort, they bathed
in tears, cry out, you have brought our gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave. If, to get one moment's ease, I wander into the
fields, every flower seems to say, we are pure. Thus is all nature
armed against me. And on whose account do I seem to be for-
saken by heaven and earth !....on your account, who strove to gain
my affections, and become master of them ; and now you triumph
over me—laugh at me for trusting to your honour, and putting
Confidence in your word.

--------O inconstant men,

How will you promise—how deceive !

O hypocrisy, how couldst thou wear so winning a form ?—Gene-
rosity, where art thou fled ?—Honour, hast thou forsaken the human
race ?—Look on my distress, O my God. Despise me not, O my
friends---forgive me, my distressed parents: then may the cold
grave receive me into its peaceful recesses, where my shame may
be buried in eternal oblivion. Now, if your heart be not as hard
as adamant, if your conscience is not seared as with a hot iron,
some past scenes must appear to your view. I do not now summon
you to appear at His awful tribunal ; I find you are still too near
my heart; for all your cruelty to me, my return is, May you in
the hour of death find that consolation from your God and Judge,
you have denied to your

  AMELIA M'C—-N."


Price One Penny.             Suicide of Wm. Pollock !

A Full True and Particular Account of the Suicide committed by
WILLIAM POLLOCK, in the Jail of Edinburgh, yester-
day morning, the 20th March 1826, who was condemned to
be Fxecuted here tomorrow (Wednesday the 22d current) for
the Murder of his own Wife; together with a copy of his
LETTER to Mr Young, Governor of the Jail, &c.

A Most extraordinary circumstance took place in the Jail of Edinburgh yes-
terday morning, Monday the 20th March 1826. Polloek, the man who
was under sentence of Death for the Murder of his Wife, and who was to have
suffered the last punishment of the law tomorrow morning, strangled himself in
his cell with a portion of his own shirt.

At eight o'clock, the upper turnkey visited Pollock, and cleaned his cell. The
prisoner then said he felt more easy, and in better spirits. When breakfast was
taken to him, about half past nine, he was found dead, but not quite cold. He
had torn out the back of his shirt, and a strip from the side of a blanket, and
these he twisted in the form of a small rope, and fastened to the cross-bar of a
table...a piece of wood about fifteen inches long, and a quarter of an inch
thick... which he had laid across the ventilator of his cell, a small circle of 18
inches diameter, formed in the wall which separates the apartment from the
passage. The height of this ventilator is only 6 feet 4 inches or thereabouts,
from the floor of the cell, but between it and the floor is the bed, a thick oak
plank, on which the unhappy man lay, and likewise the gaud or iron bar to
which he was fastened. He had adjusted his bed-clothes, however, so as to en-
tangle his feet, and prevent them reaching the ground, when he threw himself
off. He had also drawn a rug between the gaud and the ring of his fetters, to
prevent noise. Indeed, the whole circumstances evinced a degree of determi-
nation and deliberation that,is surprising.

Pollock left three letters, and a scrap of paper containing an inventory of his
effects in the jail ;—these he wished to be given to his son. The letters were
all of nearly the same tenor : in them he admits the guile of suicide, but states
that he could not endure the thought of sufering on the scaffold for a crime he
" could not bring his mind to believe he was guilty of." To Mr Young, the
Governor, he writes,—" Excuse this rash act; when you consider all, you will
see there is good intentions, though not towards myself. 

Pollock has, throughout the whole course of his confinement, conducted him-
self very quietly, but always denied the murder, and appeared rather irritated when
taxed with it. He has been attended by the Rev. Dr Lee since his condemnation.

Edinburgh :....Printed by J. CUMMING.,.....Price One Penny.Farther Particulars about William Pollock, who hang-
ed himself in the Jail of Edinburgh, on Monday the
20th March,1826, with his last Dying Declaration
in a Letter to a Gentleman the night before his death.

AS soon as the catastrophe was made known, the Governor dis-
patched notice of it to the Magistrates, and  sent for Dr
"Whyte, who arriving immediately, found all attempts to revive the
criminal would be hopeless, though there was some warmth in his
body.    A short time afterwards, Dr Black arrived, by which time
the body was cold.    Pollock, down till the hour of his death, con-
tinued hardened and impenitent.    He received, it is true, the visits
of clergymen, and was sensible of their kindness.    On one occa-
sion, he said of Dr Lee and another gentleman who daily visited
him, that if it were possible to return from the invisible world, to
express his gratitude to them, he would do it.    On Sunday after-
noon, his daughter and sister were admitted to see him, and to take
their final leave of him, no person being present except the gentle-
men above alluded to and them.   The afternoon was spent in read-
ing and prayer, to which Pollock  shewed  nor the least attention.
Immediately on the devotional exercises being finished, and when
he was about to be separated from, his relatives, he got into a rage
about the injustice of his sentence, and exclaimed, " May Abraham
see me where he saw the rich man if I  be guilty of the crime in
the manner in which I am accused.   It maybe doubted whether he
had any sentiment of religion at all, though certainly he had some      
knowledge of it.    Up to the hour of his death he denied the mur-
der of his wife, and often said  that he considered his fate cruel.
" Had I been accused of cutting her throat," said he, " had I been
accused of stabbing her in the breast, or in any other way, but to be
accused of perpetrating it in a manlier in which a cannibal would
shudder, is more than human nature can bear."    In alluding to his
body not being allowed burial, he said, " How dreadful is it that
my poor children cannot go to the church-yard and say, there lies
the remains of our father,....that l am even denied the burial of an
.ass."    So far from allowing any of those connected with the Jail to
suspence that he would commit suicide, be frequently appeared hor-
rifled at death, and often  inquired   if mere  was  no possibility of
.saving his life,for lie would submit to dungeons, chains, and any
privations, if his life might be but spared.   Pollock left behind him
an inventory .of his clothes, appended to  which is a brief bequest
.of them to his son James ; also three letters, severally addressed to
Dr Lee, to Governor Young of the Jail, and to Wilson the upper
turnkey.    In the first, he thanks the reverend Doctor for his atten-
tion towards him.    In the one to Governor Young, he writes,  Ex-
cuse this rash act.    When you consider all, you will see that there
are good intentions, though not towards myself.'    The letter to the
ripper turnkey contains. ' I never could believe that I was the occa-
sion of my wife's death, and could not bear the idea of going to the
scaffold.'    On Monday, a precognition of the circumstances con-
nected with this suicide, was taken by the Solicitor-General and the
agent.    Pollock's son James, a lad of about 18 years of age, called
at the Jail on Monday about mid-clay, to take a last farewell of his
father.   When informed of his death, he seemed pleased ; but when
the nature of it was explained to him, he appeared equally shocked.

Up to Wednesday afternoon, no relations had appeared to claim
the body of Pollock, and it was buried by order of the Magistrates
in the course of the evening.    The sentence of the court not hav-
ing been carried into effect, the Professor of Anatomy has been de-
prived of a subject.    There was something very striking in the
manner in which Pollock's relatives in Glasgow became aware of
his having been accused and found guilty.    His sister heard the
report of the trial called through the streets, and purchased a copy
because it was the trial of a namesake,—she had not before heard
of her brother being accused.    This sister visited him on Friday.
To her, as he bad done all along, he denied his guilt, although, from
the evidence on the trial, it was impossible for any one to doubt it.
To a gentleman to whom he was under considerable obligations, he,
wrote;...." I do declare that I am totally innocent of my wife's
death.    I admit that 1 gave her a kick with my foot, when she came home at ten
o'clock on: the evening of the 10th November, 1825, being rather irritated at her
conduct, having been from home the two preceding nights until midnight.   I farther
declare, that I had neither knife nor razor in my hand alter eight o'clock that night,
or a weapon of any description ; nor did I know of any thing being the matter with
her until one o'clock in the morning.    This I declare to be truth, as I shall answer
to God, before whom ia a few hours I must appear—March 19, 1826."

Printed for William Robertson, Price One Penny.