Glasgow Trials

Account of the Trials and Sentences of
the various Prisoners who have stood
before the Circuit Court of Justiciary
since its opening on Monday last.

GLASGOW, 15th September, 1828.

This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the
Right Hon. Lord Meadowbank, when, after an impressive prayer by
Mr. Muir of St. James's, the Court proceeded to try the following;
cases:-
ROBERT ANDERSON, for breaking into the Currying Shop of
David Mickel, Spoutmouth, on the 30th June last, and stealing a
guinea note, pled Guilty. 12 months' hard labour in Bridewell.
ALEXANDER RAMSAY, for stealing on the 20th May, in the
brewery of James Stewart, Tradeston, £2 and a pocket-book, pled
Guilty, 7 years' transportation.
JOHN AGNEW, for stealing on the 6th of May, from the house
of Wm. M'Alester, sen. Cheapside Street, Anderston, a silver watch,
pled Guilty. 7 years' transportation.
CATHERINE TOCHIL, for stealing wearing apparel from a
bleaching green in Rutherglen Loan, on the 21st August last, pled
Guilty. 14 years' transportation. On receiving sentence she said,
" Thank your Lordship, you can do no more."
JAMES PARK, accused of 8 different acts of falsehood, frand,
and wilful imposition, pled Guilty. 14. years' transportation.
GEORGE ARNEIL, for stealing from a till in the shop of Jas.
Tennant, grocer, Coatbridge, parish of Old Monkland, on the 10th
of April last, 14s. in silver. He was found Guilty. 14 years tran-
sportation. On going from the bar, the prisoner, pointing to one of
the local authorities said, " that man will be transported yet."
ISAIAH MOORE, accused of breaking into the house of Murdo
M'Kenzie, Ann Street, on the 9th May, and stealing a silver Watch
and appendages, and being habit and repute a thief, pled Guilty.—
7 years transportation.
JOHN CUBIE. for having, in June last, broken into the dwelling
house of Robert kay, Wallace Street, Tradeston, and stealing some
bed and table linen, wearing apparel, &c. and habit and repute a
thief, pled Guilty.—14, years' transportation.
JOHN MURRAY, for stealing 30lbs. of lead from the roof of a
house in Gibson Street, belonging to Mr Neilson, and being habit
and repute a thief, was found Guilty.—14. years' transportation.
JANET BLACK, for theft from a bleaching green in Abbey
Street, Paisley, and habit & repute; Guilty. 7 years' transportation.
This girl is only ten years of age.
PETER DONNELLY, for stealing on the 2d of June, from the
house of Mrs. Frier, Oxford Street, various articles of wearing appa-
rel, and being habit and repute a thief, was found Guilty.

Tuesday.—The last prisoner's sentence is 7 years' transportation.
FRANCIS JONES, for robbery, theft and assault, in Gallowgate,
on Sunday the 25th May last, pled guilty.—6 months' in Bridwell.
ALEXr. M'FARLANE, for sheep-stealing from the field of Rt.
Walkinshaw, Parkhouse, pled guilty.—7 years transportation.
WM. M'KINZIE, for assaulting, cutting, and stabbing his own
wife, on the 6th of June last, in Kelvin-Row, Woodside, Glasgow,
was found guilty.—14 year' transportation.
REBECCA WINTER, for stealing £90 11s. from the pockets of
James Watson, horse dealer, Belfast, while in a public-house in Prin-
ce's Street, Glasgow, pled guilty.—7 years' transportation.
THOs- YOUNG, DUGALD KELLY, and MATHEW DOUG-
HERTY, for stealing various articles, on the 30th July, from a house
in Carswell's Court, George's Street. Glasgow, occupied by William
Yeatts ; all guilty. The two first, 7 years transportation, and the
last. 12 months hard labour in Bridewell.
JAMES YOUNG, for theft and reset, pled guilty to the reset.—
14, months' in Bridewell.
Wm. THOMSON, for theft from the house of George Morrison,
Carswell's Court, George Street, guilty.—14 months' in Bridewell.
JAMES CUNNINGHAM, for assaulting various persons, as also
with malicious mischief; guilty of assault. 12 months' in Bridewell.
Nathaniel Balfour, Wm. Haddow, Robt. M'Phail, and Andrew Gil-
mour, jun. all in the same indictment, were outlawed.
ROBT. M'INTOSH & JOHN THOMSON, for theft and house-
breaking in Tradeston, pled guilty to theft. 14 years' transportation.
MARGARET ARMOUR, for theft from a house in Blue Vale, 
Glasgow, was found guilty.—7 years transportation.

Hugh Robertson, Charles Hill, Thomas Connar, and Bell M'M.-
nemy, assault and robbery; libel not proven against the two first,
but the two latter Guilty, who are to be Executed at Glasgow on
Wednesday the 22d Oct. next.
                      W. Carse, Printer.CIRCUIT  COURT,

GLASGOW, 15th Sept. 1828,

This day, the two Judges proceeded to try the following cases:—
Alexr. Latham. John Nish & Alexr. Latham, assault.    Outlawed.

ROBERT ANDERSON, for breaking into the Currying Shop
of David Mickle, Spoutmonth, on the 38th June last, and stealing
guinea note, pled Guilty  12 months' hard labour in Bridewell.

ALEXANDER RAMSAY, for stealing on the 20th May; in the
brewery of James Stewart, Tradeston, £2 and a pocket-book, pled
Guilty. 7 years' transportation.

JOHN AGNEW, for stealing from the house of Wm. M'Alester,
sen. Anderston, a silver watch ; Guilty. 7 years' transportation.

CATHERINE   TOCHIL, for stealing wearing apparel from a
bleaching green in Ruthergien Loan, on the 21st August last, pled
Guilty, 14 years' transportation.  On receiving sentence she  said, .
" Thank your Lordship, you can do no more."

JAMES PARK, accused of 8 different sets of falsehood, fraud,
and wilful imposition, pled Guilty. 14 years' transportation.

GEORGE ARNEIL, for stealing from a till in the shop of Jas.
Tennant, grocer, Coatbridge, parish of Old Moukland, on the 10th
of April last, 14s. in silver ; Guilty. 14. years'  transportation.

ISAIAH MOORE, accused of breaking into the house of Murdo  
M'Kenzie,   Ann Street, and stealing a silver watch and appendages,
and being habit and repute a thief, Guilty.—7 years' transportation.

JOHN CUBIE, for having in June last, broken into the dwelling
house of Robert Kay, Wallace Street, Tradeston, and stealing some
bed  and table linen, wearing apparel, &c.— 14 years' transportation.

JOHN MURRAY, for stealing 30lbs. of  lead from the roof of a
house in Gibson Street, belonging to Mr. Neilson, and being habit
and repute a thief, was found Guilty.—14. years' transportation.

JANET BLACK, for theft from a bleaching green, in Abbey
Street, Paisley, andl habit & repute; Guilty. 7 years' transportation.
This girl is only ten years of age.

PETER DONNELLY, for stealing on the 2d of June, from the
house of Mrs. Frier, Oxford Street, certain articles of wearing a ppa-
rel, and being habit and repute a thief.—7 years' transportation.

Tuesday.—Francis Jones, for robbery, theft & assault, Gallowgate,
on Sunday the 25th May last, pled Guilty.    6 months' in Bridwell,

ALEXr. M'FARLANE, for sheep-stealing from the field of Rt.
Walkinshaw, Parkhouse, pled guilty.    7 years' transportation.

Wm. M'KENZIE, Tor assaulting, cutting. and stabbing his own
wife, in Kelvin-Row, Woodside; Guilty.—14 years' transportation.

REBECCA WINTER, for stealing  £90 11s. from the pockets of
James Watson, horse-dealer, Belfast, while in a public house in Prin-
ce's Street, Glasgow, pled guilty.—7 years' transportation.

THOs. YOUNG, DUGALD KELLY, and MATHEW DOUG-
HERTY, for stealing various articles, on the 30th July, from a house-
in Carswell's Court, George's Street, Glasgow, occupied by William
Yeatts; all guilty. The two first 7 years' transportation, and the
last 12 months' hard labour in Bridwell.

JAMES YOUNG, for theft and reset, pled guilty to the reset.—
14, months in Bridewell.

WM. THOMSON, for theft from the house of George Morrison,
Cariwell's Court, George Street, guilty.—14 months' in Bridewell.

JAMES CUNNINGHAM. for assaulting various persons, and
with malicious mischief; guilty of assault. 12 months' in Bridewell.
Nathaniel Balfour, Wm. Haddow, Robt. M'Pnail, and Andruw Gil-
mour, jun. all in the same indictment, were outlawed.

ROBt. M'INTOSH & JOHN THOMSON, for theft and house-
breaking In Tradeston, pied guilty to theft. 14 years' transportation.

MARGARET ARMOUR, for theft from a house in Blue Vale,
Glasgow,was found guilty.—7 years' transportation.

Wednesday.—Andrew Boyd and Archd. Young, for theft of a sil-
ver watch and 10s. from John Ferguson, Chryston,  near Moorhead
Bar; Young dismissed, but Boyd  guilty.—7 years' transportation.

John Ferguson, for uttering a forged note in Calton.—Dismissed.

Hugh M'Farlane, for housebreaking and theft.    Recommitted.

James Hastie, accused of stealing; a pocket. book and 8l. from John
Bowman, Kilbride, in Gallowgate. and being habit & repute a thief.
Not proven.—Dismissed.—Lord Meadowbank warned him of his fu-
ture conduct; Hastie said, " I hope in God to follow your advice."

Hugh Robertson, Charles Hill, Thos. Counar, and Bell M'Me-
nemy, for assaulting and robbing Alexr. M'Kinnon, boatman, mar
Port Eglinton, of 21. and other articles ; the two first were dismissed ;
but the two latter Guilty, who are to be Executed at Glasgow on
Wednesday the 22d October next.

John Dalziel and Robert Marshall, for theft at Newlands & Jean-
field ; the former recommitted on a new warrant; the latter dismissed.

John Loag alias Logan, and James Daily, for stealing £41 ls. in
notes, from the shop of Gilbert M'Kinlay, Bridgegate, pled guilty.
3 months in Bridewell.

James Paton, for theft from the house of James Craighead, Rose-
hill, pled guilty.—12 months in Bridewell.

THURSDAY.—HENRY SAUNDERS, accused of an extensive robbery of the
Greenock Bank, some months ago, pled Not Guilty. after a long trial, the libel was
found Not Proven, and he was dismissed —Trial Finished.

W. Carse, Printer.Glasgow Circuit.
                   
An account of the Trials and Sentences of all the different Prisoners
who have been tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which
met at Glasgow on Monday September 15, 1828.

GLASGOW, 15th SEPTEMBER, 1823.—This day the Circuit Court of Justiciary was
opened here by the Right Hon. Lords Meadowbank and Pitmilly, and after the usual solemin-
ties had been gone through, the Court proceeded to business.

A shorter mode of procedure is now adopted than what was formerly done. When the pri-
soner pleads Not Guilty, the indictment is not read over, but when they plead Guilty, the
indictment is read over to let the Judge hear it, and no Jury is appointed.

The following persons were outlawed for not appearing:—Alexander Latham, alia Fisher,
Alexander Latham, and John Nish, for an aggravated assault.

Robert Anderson, for breaking into the Counting house of Mr. Meikle, and stealing some
money therefrom, pled guilty; 12 months imprisonment.

George Arniel, for theft and habit and repute, was found guilty;  14 years transportation.

John Agnew, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation,
John Cubie, for housebreaking ana theft, pled guilty, 14 years transportation.
Alexander Ramsay, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Catherine Tochil. for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty, 14 years transportation.

James Park, for falsehood, fraud, forgery, and wilful imposition, pled guilty; l4 years trans-
portation.

Isaiah Moore, for housebreaking and theft, pled guilty, 7 years transportation.

John Murray, for housebreaking and theft, was found guilty;  14 years transportation.

Janet Black, from Paisley, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transports-
tion.

Peter Donnelly, for stealing some wearing apparel from a house in Oxford Street, was found
guilty; seven years transportation,

TUESDAY.—The Court met this day at 9 o'clock when the trial of Henry Saunders for
robbing the Greenock Bank was generally expected to come on, but we understand that it is
postponed for a future day.
Alexander M'Farlane, from Paisley, for sheep stealing, pled guilty; 7 years transportation

Francis Jones, for robbery, theft, and assault, pled guilty of the theft, and the other charges
aving been departed from, he was sentenced to six months in Bridewell.

William M'Kenzie, for assaulting and stabbing his wife in different parts of the body, was
found guilty; 14 years transportation.

Rosanna Winter, for stealing L 90 from a gentleman's packet in Prince's Street, Glasgow,
pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Thomas Young, Dugald Kelly, and MathewDougherty, for stealing several articles from a
house in Carswell's Court, were found guilty; Dougherty 12 months in Bridewell, and the
other two 7 years transportation.

James Young, for stealing a trunk off a carrier's cart, containing several articles of habar-
lashery, or for resetting them, pled guilty of the reset; 14 months in Bridewell.

William Thomson, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty;  14months in Bridewell.

James Cunningham, Nathaniel Balfour, William Haddow Robert M'Phail, and Andrew Gil-
mour, jun, for assault with intent to rob. They were all outlawed except Cunningham, and
he pled guilty of the assault; 12 months in Bridewell.

Robert M'Intosh and John Thomson, for breaking into a byre in Tradeston, and stealing 10
bens and a bag, pled guilty; 14 years transportation. 

Margaret Armour, for stealing a number of articles from a house in Bluevale. Glasgow, pled
guilty; 7 years transportation.

WEDNESDAY—The Court met this day at 8 o'clock.

Hugh Richardson, Charles Hill, Thomas Conner, and Bell M'Menemy, a woman were then
sentenced at the bar, charged with cruellyassaulting a man of the name of  M'Kinnon, near the
Paisley Canal, and robbing him of some money.   The woman pled Guilty, and the three men
pled  Not Guilty.   After the examination of a number of witnesses Connar was found guilty,
and the woman and him were sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 22d
day of October next.   The other two were acquitted.                                                  

   John Muir, printer Glasgow.A particular account of the procedure of the Circuit Court of justiciary
held at Glasgow on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday the 19, 20,
21st of September 1786, giving a particular account of the trial and
sentence of the different criminals.                     

THE Circuit court of justiciary was opened
here on the 19th of Septr. 1786   by   the
Honourable the Lord Justice Clerk and Lord
Braxfield, and  after prayer by  the Revd. Mr.
M'Call one of the ministers of this city, the
Sheriffs of the three counties of Lanark, Ren-
frew   and Dumbarton were called upon and ap-
peared, Then the Lord Advocate  for Scotland
his commission was read appointing Mr William
Craig advocate, to be his advocate depute for the
western circuit, and the oaths of allegence and
abjuration having been  tendered to him he ac-
cordingly took the same; and  thereafter David
Aitken, alias Anderson,  present prisoner in the
tolbooth of Glasgow was called to the bar, when
the advocate depute, on account of some certain
circumstances deserted  the diet against the prison-
er pro loco et tempore, and thereafter presented a
petition to the Judges craving a new warrant of
commitment against him to be incarcerate in the
tolbooth   of Glasgow, which   they accordingly
granted, and in consequence thereof he was im-
mediately carried back to prison.

John Cox present prisoner in  the tolbooth of
Glasgow was then called to the bar, the libel or
indictment being read to him by the clerk of
court, he was asked by the Lord Justice Clerk
if he was guilty of the crime charged and now
read on which he began to  speak but could not
be understood on account of some impediment in
his speech, when Mr Hogg advocate arose and
moved in court that the pannel now standing at
the bar was an absolute idiot, and said he had not
the least doubt but he could prove the same, upon
which he was ordered back to prison until six
o 'clock at night; afterwards Kennedy Murray,
present prisoner in the tolbooth of Glasgow, chr-
ged with breaking into a house in the old wynd,
and stealing from thence a box belonging to a
trvelling chapman, and habite and repute a thief,
was brought to the bar, the Judge asked him how
old he was, the pannel answered that he was nine-
teen his indictment being read by the clerk of
court, Mr Hogg advocate presented a petition
signed by the pannel craving to be banished,
which the advocate depute consented to, on which
he was ordered back to prison, the court then
adjurned  till six o'clock at night.

Between six and seven the court again met,
When John Cox was ordered to the bar, and af-
ter several long speeches for the crown and for
the pannel the court allowed a proof of his insa-
niry or being an idiot, and after a number of wit-
nesses were examined several of whom were sur-
geons; one in particular being asked if he thought
the pannel knew good from evil, answered he did
not think it,for when he reproved him for any evil
action, and asked him What he thought would
become of him? he made answer, that there were
no devils here but that they were all in the castle
of Stirling. The court then adjourned to ten
o'clock next day.

Sept. 20. The court being met according to
appointment, John Cox was again brought to the
bar, when their Lordships having considered the

depositions of the witnesses, they found it proven 
that the pannel was in such a state as rendered
him not a proper object trial and insane. They
therefore ordained him to be carried back to prison
therein to be detained until sufficient caution be
found acted in the books of ajdournal, that he
shall be kept in some sure place so as not to hurt
the public under the penalty of 500 merks.

 David Barcley weaver in Beith was then
brought  to the bar, when the advocate depute
for certain reasons deserted the diet against the
prisoner, and craved warrant of commitment a-
gainst him, when he was ordered back to prison,
and from thence to be remitted back to Paisley
prison.

Elizabeth Paul, alias Wilson was thereafter brought
to the bar, indicted for stealing cloth from a bleach-
field in the Abby parish of Paisley, and being habite
and repute a thief ; the indictment being read to her
she was asked if she was guilty? she answered not. 
Where upon their Lordships found the lybel relevent
to infer the pains of law, and after several witnesses
were examined, the advocate depute sumed up the
evidence on the part of the crown, and Mr Clerk
advocate for the pannel, when the Lord Justice
Clerk charged the Jury in a very able speech, and
the Jury having inclosed, in a short time returned a
verdict unanimously finding the lybel proven, their
Lordships delayed pronouncing sentence till to-
morrow one o'clock.

Daniel M'Kay was also called to the bar, and the
indictment beeng read to him, he was asked if he
was guilty of the crime lybelled, to which he made
answer that he was, upon which their Lordships
found the lybel relevent to infer the pains of law,
and remitted the pannel to the verdict of an assize,
and after several witnesses were examined, the Ad-
vocate depute summed up the evidence on the part
of the crown, and the pannel's Advocate for his
part, when their Lordships charged the Jury, after
which they were inclosed, and in a short time re-
turned a verdict unanimously finding  the lybel pro-
ven, when their Lordships delayed passing sentance
till the time aforesaid.

Sept. 21 st, The court met according to appoint-
ment, and Daniel M'Kay being brought to the bar
was sentenced to be banished for life, and his service
adjudged for seven years, with certification if ever
he was found in Great Britain he should suffer death.
Next Kennedy Murray was called to the bar, and
was sentenced to be banished for fourteen years, and
his Service adjudged for seven years, with certifica-
tion if ever he was found in Scotland during that
period he was to be whipped upon the Wednesday
after his being brought to Glasgaw prison. And
lastly, Elizabeth Paul, alias Wilson being called to
the bar, the verdict of the assize was read to her,
and after the Judge had long reasoned on the hain-
ousness of her crime, afterwards passed sentence,
which was, to be carried back to prison until the 25
day of Octr. next and on that day to be taken from
thence to the common place of execution, and there
to be hanged by the neck betwixt the hours of two
& four o'clock afternoon until she was dead.

Lord Justice Clerk admonished her to employ the
short time that she had  to live in preparing for a
future state, & warned the spectators to take warn-
ing by the poor unhappy woman now at the bar, e-
specially young persons, by showing how hard it was
to bring those that had been long addicted to vici-
ous habits off from them.An account of the Trials of the different Criminals, in the Circuit Court of Justiciary at
Glasgow, which was opened on Tuesday the 2d of May, 1809.

THE Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened
at Glasgow on Tuesday the 2d of May, by
the Right Honourable Lords Craig and Armadale,
when                

M. Simpson and J. Stafford, accused of assault
and robbery, were brought to the Bar. They
both pleaded guilty, and were sentenced to I4
years' transportation. 

The Court next proceeded with the trial of John
Duncan, accused of murder or culpable homicide.
After a short trial he was unanimously found not
guilty, and dismissed from the Bar.

J. Hastie, charged with an assault and robbery,
was next put to the Bar, and, after a trial of con-
siderable length, was found guilty, and adjudged
to be confined in the Tolbooth of this city for six
months.                                 



James Hannah, accused of assault and robbery,
and of being habit and repute a thief, was unani-
mously foand guilty.          

John M'Allister, accused of stealing bank notes,
was then put upon his trial; but the libel being
found not proven he was dismissed from the bar.



Wednesday, John Frazen, charged with forg-
ing a letter from James Boatson, Supervisor of
Excise in Bonhill, for the purpose of obtaining de-
livery of a quantity of salted herrings, and of salt,
which had been seized from Fraser as contraband,
and lodged in the house of Mrs. Craig, inn-keeper
at Gairloch-head. Several witnesses were examin-
ed, in particular two Engravers, to make out the
forgery comparatione literarum. The Jury were
ably addressed by the Advocate Depute on the part
of the Crown, and a very ingenious defence was
made for the prisoner by Mr. Jardine; after which
the evidence, was summed up by Lord Armadale,
and the Jury being enclosed, returned a verdict
finding, by a plurality of voices the libel proven-
He was sentenced to eight months' imprisonment
in the Tolbooth of Glasgow. Their Lordships ob-
served , that the former good character of the pri-
soner, Fraser, as sworn to by very respectable wit-
nesses, was a consideration which inclined them to
inflict a more lenient punishment than would other-
wise have been imposed.

Thereafter the Court proceed to the trial of
William Alexander Campbell, for uttering certain
notes of the Renfrewshire Bank, knowing them to
be forged. After several witnesses had been ex-
amined, the trial was abandoned, owing to an er-
ror in the indictment, in the description of certain
notes, which the Counsel for the prisoner contend-
ed could not therefore be produced in evidence a-
gainst him. The Court, after hearing Counsel,
sustained the objection, and the trial having been
in consequence abandoned, the Jury were enclosed,
and returned a verdict, finding the libel not proven,
and he was dismissed from the Bar.

The diet was deserted, pro loco et tempore, a-
gainst George Stewart, John Armstrong, and John
Gordon M'Intosh, accused of housebreaking and
robbery, and a new warrant was granted for their
recommitment. It is understood their trial will
come on before the High Court of Justiciary.

THURSDAY, May 4.

This morning the Court proceeded to the trial
of Hugh Ramsay, for culpable homicide. After
the examination of two witnesses the public prose-
cutor declined proceeding farther. The Jury were
then enclosed on the case.

William Kirkwood, hostler at Bowling Inn, was
put to the Bar, accused of the murder of William
Smith. After a long trial, the Jury, by a majority,
found the libel not proven, and Kirkwood was dis-
missed from the Bar.

On the prisoner, James Hannah, found guilty of
robbery, and of being habit and repute a thief, be-
ing brought into Court, John Wood, Esq. Advo-
cate, his Counsel, pleaded, in bar of any sentence
being pronounced against him, that the five Gentle-
men who were last named as the Jury of the priso-
ner, had never been sworn, and that therefore the
alleged verdict returned by the Jury was null and
void; and he craved that the prisoner be dismissed
from the Bar. The Court, before proceeding to
consider the objection, ordered a proof of the fact;
and four of the five Gentlemen who, it was alleged,
had not been sworn when impannelled on this trial,
being instantly adduced and examined on oath as to
the foresaid allegation, three of them deponed that
they were certain that they had not been sworn; and
the fourth Gentleman, that he thought that he was
not sworn, when named Juryman on this trial.-
Their Lordships inclined to sustain the objection;
but on account of the importance of the case, they
ordered it to be reported to the High Court of Jus-
ticiary for their opinion and decision; and the pri-
soner to be transmitted to Edinburgh, to be present
at the discussion to take place on the 22d current.
	
This finished the whole of the criminal business.

AIR, April 20.

This day came on the trial of William Dornan,
blacksmith, and Robert Smyth, shoe-maker.-
They were accused of having, by means of false
keys, or otherwise, on either of the nights between
Saturday the 10th and Monday the 12th of Sept.
1808, entered the shop of Miss Margaret M'Mur-
ray, in Air, and carried away a large quantity of
goods, which consisted principally of nineteen
pieces of print, five of gingham, silk chambray,
black silk velvet, cotton velvet, spotted muslins,
imitatation shawls, hankerchiefs, &c.

The robbery was clearly proven, and the priso-
ners were sentenced to be executed on Friday the
26th day of May, between the hours of two and
four afternoon, at the place of execution within
the parish.

DUMFRIES, April 26.

The Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here
on Monday last, by the Right Honourable Lord
Hermand.

Michael Donelly and James Duffy, late weavers
in Carlisle, accused of forgery. The Jury, by a
plurality of voices, found the libel proven against
James Duffy; and they, by a plurality of voices,
found the libel not proven against Donelly, who
was dismissed from the Bar.

James Duffy was sentenced to be executed here
on Wednesday the 31st day of May next.

Printed by Thomas Duncan, 159, Saltmarket.A Full, correct, and Particular Account of the Trial
and Sentence of MARY ELDER or SMITH, wife of
David Smith, Farmer at Denside, Parish, of Moni-
kie, and county of Forfar, who was tried at Edin-
burgh, an Monday the 19th February 1827, for the
wilful Murder of Margaret Warden, a young
woman, her own Servant maid, by Administering
Poison to her, on the 5th September last, in con-
sequence of which she Died the third day after;
but the libel was found Not Proven.

AT Edinburgh, on Monday the 19th February, 1827, came on,
before the High Court of Justiciary, (after several postpon-
ments, one of which was in consequence of the sudden indisposition
of one of the Jury, after a good deal of the evidence for the prose-
cution had been gone through, and out of which circumstance an-
other postponment was rendered necessary, in consequence of the
urguments of Counsel against proceeding again with the case,) the
Trial of MARY ELDER or SMITH, wife of David Smith, farmer
at Denside, parish of Monikie, and county of Forfar, accused of Mur-
der, by having, on the 5th September last, within the house at
Denside aforesaid, wilfully, maliciously, and feloniously, administer-
ed, or caused to be procured or administered, to Margaret Warden,
then servant to the said David Smith, a quantity of arsenic, ar other
poisonous substance, mixed up with water, or other liquid, inducing
her to swallow the same, by falsely representing to her that it was
a medicine intended for her benefit; and she having accordingly
swallowed the said deleterious mixture, became immediately there
after violently ill, and lingered in great pain until the 8th of the said
month of September, 1826, when she died in,consequence thereof;
she being thus wilfully, maliciously, and feloniously Murdered.—
To which the pannel pled Not Guilty.

A number of witnesses were then examined, from whose evidence
it appeared, that the deceased turned unwell on Tuesday, and that
the prisoner gave her something to drink of a whitish colour, in a
large dram glass, with a peace of sugar to take after it, about nine
o'clock at night, which she swallowed, and went to bed.    That she
turned ill before morning, complaining much of her inside, and suf-
fering from thirst; and, on drinking water, which she always cried
for, saying her inside was burning, she immediately threw it up:
That the prisoner, on Thursday night, a witness observed, came and
asked the deceased if she thought a drap whisky would  be good
for her, to which the witness, Jean Norrie, a fellow servant,who
slept with the deceased, replied, that she had got enough of that,
or something else, she could not tell what, for such purging and
vomiting she never before had seen.   That Margaret Warden's
mother was sent for and came to see her on Friday forenoon, the
day she died, and said to this witness, in presence of her mother and. I
Ann Gruar, another witness, ' you ken wha has been the occasion
of my lying here, but dinna say nathing; they will get their re-
wards, but I forgive them.'    That she died that night at 9 o'clock,
and her body appeared of a blackish colour.    She was 25 years of
age, was with child at the time, and George, Smith the prisoner's
son, the deceased had said, was the father.    The body was buried
on Sunday the 10th September, and the corpse was taken up three
weeks after, opened in the church-yard, and some particles of poison
taken from the stomach, which was the cause of her death,  the
quantity and quality of of which being particularly decribed by the
medical gentlemen attending; one of whom, Dr Taylor, who .had
been sent for, states, that the prisoner repeatedly inquired, if he
thought the violent vomiting would not cause abortion, addiug  in
her own words, I dinna care though such a thing, (a miscarriage)
should happen, for the' gude man would tear down the house if he
ken'd it.'

The prisoner's declaration was then read, and several exculpatory
witnessess examined, when the Jury were addressed by the Lord
Advocate for the Crown, and Mr Jeffrey for the pannel.  The Lord
Justice Clerk summed up the evidence, and concluded an animated
address at half-past 5 on Tuesday morning, when the Jury were
enclosed, and directed to return their verdict in writing at 2 o'clock
afternoon. The Court met accordingly at 2 o'clock, when the Jury
returned a verdict finding the Libel Not Proven ; and, after a suit-
able admonition, she was dismissed from the bar. This trial excit-
ed a great deal of interest.                                   

Printed for JAMES M'LEAN. 

Account of the interesting Trial of John Stewart and Cathe-
rine Wright, for the Murder and Robbery of Robert Lamont,
on board the Toward Castle Steam Boat, on her passage from
Inverary to Glasgow, by giving him landanum in his drink,
whereby he became  insensible, and after Rabbing him of a large
sum of money, he shortly afterwards died. The trial took
place at Edinburgh on the 14th July, 1829; they are to be
Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 19th August next

EDINBURGH, 14th July, 1829.—This day, came on the trial of John Stewart
and  Catherine Wright, accused of murder and robbery on board the  above vessel.

The indictment charged the prisoners, while they were on board the said
vessel, plying on the Clyde, then on her voyage from Inveraray to Glasgow, and
when said Steam boat was on her way between Tarbert and Glasgow, with wilfully,
wickedly, and feloniously, administering to Robert Lamont, then a passenger in said
boat, and lately merchant and farmer, residing at Balligartan, in the parish of
Kilninian, in the island of Ulva, and shire of Argyle, a quantity of laudanum, or
some other narcotic or poisonous substance, which they had mixed up with a quan-
tity of porter or ale, or some other liquid, and which mixture they, or one or other
of them gave him, and in consequence of having taken the same, he fell into a pro-
found sleep, and while in that state, one, or both of them, robbed him of a pocket
book, containing nearly twenty pounds, and a purse with some money. That the,
said Robert Lamont, in consequence of his having drank the said laudanum, or
 other narcotic substance on the 15th of December last, died in great agony on the
16th of the same month. The prisoners pled Not Guilty.

After a long and interesting trial, in which a number of witnesses were examined,
(whose evidence is too long for insertion here), the Jury was addressed with great
ability by the Counsel on both sides, after which the Lord Justice Clerk summed
up the evidence in a clear and impartial manner, when the Jury were inclosed and
ordered to return their verdict, which they afterwards did, finding both the pannels
Guilty of the crime libelled. .

The Lord Justice Clerk, previous to passing sentence impressed upon them the
heinous nature of the crime of taking away the life of a fellow creature, and warn-
ed them to improve the short time allotted them here, in making up their peace with
an offended God, whose laws they had broken.

His Lordship then passed sentence of death upon them, ordaining them to be
Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 19th Aug. next, and their bodies to be
given to the Professor of Anatomy there for dissection.

The above is another horrid affair, and though not equal in extent to the mur-
ders which Burke committed, yet it is equal in enormity. Burke murdered that he
might get money far their bodies ; the pannels murdered that they might get money
from their victim's pockets. To invite a man, under the masque of friendship, to
drink with them, and pass a social hour together, and, in the midst of this feigned
friendship, to mix the deadly draught in the vessel out of which he drank, and at
the same time avoid it themselves, in order that they might get possession of his
property, is just another addition to those barbarous acts which lately occurred
at Edinburgh. It is said that they were before this in company with two persons
in Glasgow, who died shortly after drinking with them.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of James
Anderson and David Glenn, who are to be Executed at the spot where the
crime war committed, on Friday, the 12th December 1823, for the
Murder of John M'Clure, and their bodies to be given for Dissection.

BEFORE the High Court of Justiciary, at Edinburgh, on Wed-
nesday the 5th November 1823, JAMES ANDERSON, DA-
VID  GLENN,  MARGARET  FREW, and MARGARET AN-
DERSON, were indicted for Murder, in having, on the 6th day of
July last, attacked John M'Clure, on the road leading from the
town of Ayr to the village of Ochiltree, and beat and kicked him in
such a manner as to occasion his death a few hours after.     To
which they pled Not Guilty.       

Thomas Young, a student, who left Ochiltree in company with
the deceased Mr John M'Clure, and who was attacked on the road
at the same time with him, by the prisoners, described, at consider
able length, the circumstances of the attack.    They gave no provo
cation whatever.    They appeared to be intoxicated, and witness
and M'Clure did not even speak to them before they attacked them
His evidence was corroborated by that of James  Bryden, another 
student, and of James Tod, merchant, Ayr, who passed  them at the
time in a car or gig, and who on seeing them attacked, stopped the
gig and eame to their assistance,    M'Clure was struck, kicked, and
terribly abused, and Bryden says, in the last attack M'Clure   was
standing on the side of   the   road, holding his umbrella before
him, when Anderson ran in upon him, and knocked him down a-
gain.    M'Clure called out, " O !  man, let me alone, I can do no
more, and you have done enough."    He was ultimately got into    .
the gig and taken home, and died in two hours after.    After the ex-
amination of several witnesses, the pannels' declarations were read
in which they stated that they had been drinking in the toll-house,
and were  much intoxicated.      Some  had  a confused  recollection
of the affray on the road, and others said that they recollected no-
thing'at all about it.    John Hunter, keeper of the toll-bar at Holm-
ston, near where the assault took place, was then  examined, in ex-
calpation, but his evidence brought out nothing in favour of the ac-
cused, but rather tended to confirm several parts of the evidence for
the prosecution.

The Lord Advocate addressed the Jury for the Crown, at consi-
derable length, and stated, that this case was to  have been tried at.
the Ayr Circuit, but, from an accidendtal error in the indictment, it
had been certified to this court; and he was glad it had taken, place'
here, where no local feelings could interfere with the investigation.'
His Lordship concluded by saying, that the evidence.warranted'
him in asking from them a verdict of murder against all the prison-
ers.    He was followed by Mr Napier for the prisoners, who insist- 
ed on the possibility of the death of M'Clure being occasioned by
apoplexy, brought on by agitation and exertion on the unlucky oc-    
casion.

After which the Lord Justice Clerk summed up the evidence,
At great length, and decidedly expressed his own opinion, that the
crime of murder had been proved against the male prisoners,   The
Jury, in twenty minutes, returned an unanimous verdict,  finding
James Anderson and David Glenn Guilty of the crime, libelled ; but
in consequence of the murder not having been premeditated, recom-
mended them to mercy; and the libel Not Proven against the fe-
male prisoners.   The women, after a solemn advice from the Lord
Justice Clerk, were dismissed from the bar.             .             

After a few  observations from Lord-Picmilly. in which Lord
Meadowbank entirely concurred, the Lord Justice Clerk then said,
in performing the painful duty which now devolved on him,he did
not wish to say any thing to aggravate those feelings, with which,
by their demeanour, the prisoners seemed to have been impressed
throughout this investigation ; but it was incumbent him to warn
them to adopt that line of conduct which would be most  for their
interest, both in this world, and that, to come, whatever might be
the issue of this day's proceedings.    The recommendation of the
Jury, and the ground of it, would be forwarded to the proper quar-
ter ; but he advised them not to trust to its success ; for, in consi-
dering that recommendation, the whole of the case would be taken
into view; and he thought it his duty not to hold our to them any
flattering hopes that might not be realized.  On the contrary, he
implored them to consider themselves as on the brink of eternity.
If their repentance was sincere, mercy was promised to the chief of
sinners; but if they remained hardened a more dreadful day of
;  reckoning awaited them.    Even if their lives should be spared, it
would be incumbent on them to follow a new course of life, and by
their future good conduct, to redeem the past. The sentence of the
Court was, that they should be removed from the Jail of Edinburgh,
on the 17th of November, and transmitted to the Jail of Ayr; from
whence they should be taken to such place as the Magistrates might
appoint, on Friday the 12th day of December next, and there public-
ly execn ed, and their bodies given to Dr Munro for dissection.An account of the Trial and Sentence of John
Campell, and William Helm, accnsed of culpable
Homicide, whereby Alexr. Lawson a shearer met
his death at Currie.
John Campbell and William Helm were next brought to the bar, accussed of cul-
pable homicide, wickedly and recklessly attacked and laid hold of Alexander Law-
son' weaver, dragged him out from thence, and pushed, or with blows knocked, the
said Alexander Lawson to the ground with violence, whereby his skull was frac-
tured; and, in consequence of which, he died immediately thereafter. The prison-
ers pleaded not guilty.                                                                   

Jane Carson or Lawson, was the first witness called, and, on the Lord Justice-
Clerk asking, with reference to the mode of administering the oath, to what reli-
gious profession she belonged—if she was a Roman Catholic ?—she replied with
peculiar emphasis, " I am a member of the Church of Scotland." Having been
sworn, she deponed nearly as follows :------I am widow of the deceased  Alexander
Lawson, who was a native of Ireland, which country he left about a year and a half
ago We travelled from Glasgow in search of employment, and arrived at Currie
about 8 o'clock on the evening of the 6th August, my husband, myself, and five
children. Upon reaching Currie, we went to search for a lodging house, but could
find none. We went to Mr Bardie's, and meeting a woman at the door, whom I
supposed to be the mistress of the house, I asked to be allowed to remain for the
night, as Edinburgh was too far distant for us to reach it. This person said, that
Mr Hardie was not at home ; but neither bade nor forbade us to remain. I asked
If we would be permitted to stop till Mr Hardie returned ? She said we might.
We then went into a shed—a cart shed—and sat down. About nine,  went to en-
quire if Mr Hardie had returned ; and was informed he had not. I returned to the
shed ; and my husband said there surely could be no offence taken at our remaining
for the night where we were. We drew a cart out of a corner; and gathered some
 "oats" of straw that lay about, to make a bed for the children. My husband then
said I had better try and get some porridge or brose made for them. I went, Oh !
unfortunately went to the house of Campbell, and asked hs wife if she would per-
mit a little drop of water to be boiled ; she refused, saying her husband had to go
to his work in the morning, and she could not then light the fire ; I tried another
house, and not being able to get warm Water, returned to the shed. Our money-
was almost all gone; we had only one sixpence left, with which I purchased 4d!
worth of bread, Id- worth of sugar, and a bottle of beer, and gave them to the
children. We stripped ourselves naked, put the clothes under the children and our-
selves, along with the straw, and were covered by a pair of blankets which I had
with me. Just after lying down, my husband said to the two eleder children, " to
be mindful of their duty to their God, for the Almighty was as much with them in
that shed as if they had been in a palace.  Two men came into the shed, and went
up to the opposite corner, when they said, " they are not here" but Campbell, the
tall man, came over to where we were lying, and took hold of my husband's arm,
and Helm fastened on him immediately thereafter and dragged him from out his
bed, they swearing and crying at the time "you—— what brings you here?
My husband replied, ' Boys if there is any offence, I will rise and go away." I
now saw a third person who stood outside, and who afterwards prevented us getting
out of the shed.  The two men that laid hold of my husband , pulled him out of the
shed and murdered him...I heard the noise of ' slaps', By the time I got out, my
husband was stretched on the ground, and these two men standing beside him.

The deceased's daughter corroborated her mothers evidence.
Certificates were read, by which it appeared that both prisoners had always sus-
tained irreproachable characters. Both have families.
The Lord Advocate addressed the jury on behalf of the crown.    He would wil-
lingly have left this case altogether in the hands of the Court, but his duty must be
performed.  He would very shortly point out the nature of the crime with which
they stood charged.    Murder by the law, required the intention to kill to its being
proved ; but culpable homicide was the commission of any culpable act, by which
the death of a fellow creature ensued, although the perpetrator might not intend it.
His Lordship read a passage from Baron  Hume's commentaries, where it is laid
down, that if one man push another, that he fall, and death ensue in consequence,
it is culpable homicide, That is exactly the case, undoubtedly this poor man came
by. His death by the fall he sustained. By whom was he thrust down, unquestion-
able by the pannels, the conduct of this poor man was in no respect such as to jus-
tify their violence, nothing was done by this poor family to tempt  any one to do
them an injury, they were poor and destitute, and wandering in search of work, in
the course of their wanderings they came to the village of Currie, they sought a lodg-
ing for the night but could find none; they were told there were no lodging houses,
but were directed to Mr Hardies, as a compassionate gentlemen, who afforded hos-
pitality and shelter to unfortunate strangers. It was grevious to find this poor for-
lorn family so unkindly used ; they asked water, but it was refused them, yet they
made no complaint; they asked a little straw to make a bed for their children, but
it could not be given them, still they made no remonstrance,  but meekly retired to
their miserable lodging place without any ; when Heatly the servant refused them
straw, even the unfortunate father, with a meek submission which did him the high-
est honour, made not the smallest token of discontent, but  peaceable  retired,  and
scraping together such as they could find lying about,  hey  endeavoured   to make
themselves as comfortable as their wretched situation afforded ; when Mr Ross, Mr
Hardie's nephew, sometime after found them in the shed, far from finding fault, he
asked them if they had got any straw, and with the feelings of a gentleman offered
them some ; but they humbly declined givirg tham any trouble, "surely they might
now think they had found a refuge, though a miserable one for the night; and they
stripped themselves of all their clothes, to make a bed for their poor children, and     
here a scene took place, which it was impossible to contemplate; without being more
affected than any public speaker would wish to be. (here his lordship and the whole
Court were evidently much affected.) this poor family were reduced  to the lowest
Poverty, they had only one sixpence in the world, which they laid out in bread for
their children, in this situation this poor old man not  only  strips himself for the
benefit of his children, but he directs them to offer up their supplications to that
God whose presence was with them even in this shed, and who was as able to pro-
tect them here as if they were in the   most splendid palace, from a public house
Campbell's wife went to bring her husband   home ;  and for this purpose she tells
a story about being insulted, and people coming into the house : Campbell did then
do home.    He went into his house: for  when Helm and Scott came to his house,
shortly afterwards, he opened the door on the inside.    He ought to have inquired
at his wife the particulars of the alleged insult ; but he went out with intent to in-
jure these poor people.    He goes from shed to shed,  and when lying in supposed
security, this poor man is attacked and pulled  in a state of nudity,  from his miser-
able shelter.    Still his peaceable disposition predominates, for he declares if he has
given any offence he will rise and go away : but he is answered with a blow which
sounds 50 or 60 yards off.    He falls and shortly dies.  Under  all these circum-
stances Lordship claimed a verdict of guilty in terms of the libel.

We regret very much that our limits will not admit of an outline, of the able and
 affecting addresses of the judges, and the very able defence of the prisouer's counsel.

After a suitable admoniton from the Lord Justice lerk, the prisoners were sen-
tenced to seven years transportation. £7 7s was collected for the Widow.Atrocious Case of MURDER  and THEFT.

A Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARGARET
BOAG, at Edinburgh, on Monday 19th January 1824, charged
with Murdering Elizabeth Low, an Old Woman of  75 years of
age, at Dunning in Perthshire, on the 18th February, 1818;
or, with Theft and Reset of Theft, in stealing from her House
a Quantity of Webs of Linen and Sheeting, and various other
Articles, who was Found Guilty of Theft, and Sentenced to be
Transported beyond Seas for Life.

AT Edinburgh, yesterday, Monday the 19th January, 1824, came on before
the High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of MARGARET BOAG, arrainged on
the charges of having murdered an old woman named Elizabeth Low, or M'La-
red, at Dunning, Perthshire, in the month of February, 1818 ; or of theft and re-
set of theft, in stealing from the house of the deceased a quantity of linen in
Webs and sheeting, and various other articles, the property of the late Elizabeth
Low, and having the same unlawfully in her possession. To which the prison-
er pled Not Guilty. An objection to the relevancy of the indictment, with res-
pect to the charge of reset, stated by the prisoner's council, having been over-
ruled by the Court, a Jury was chosen, and the trial proceeded.

Dr Martin lived at Dunning in 1818; recollects the death of Elizabeth Low,
on the 18th February ; found her head fractured ; the body was lying on the
bed ; the fissure was three inches in length ; the portions of the fracture must
have been driven in ; the wound must have been inflicted with a blunt instru-
ment, because the scalp was but little changed; there was but little blood effu-
sed externally ; it might have been done with the blunt end of an axe ; there
were a number of bruises on other parts of her body; her tongue pratracted,
and her face exhibited a bloated appearance ; the body was cold when he was
called ; was there when the prisoner claimed a pair of shoes; said she lent them
to the deceased the night before, her feet being wet, &c.

Several other respectable witnesses were then examined, who described the
house of the deceased, the state in which the body was found when first dis-
covered, who lived in it at the time of the murder, and who proved several ar-
ticles found in the possession of the prisoner, to have been the property of the
deceased. The prisoner's declaration was read ; after which, five witnesses
were examined in exculpation, when the Lord Advocate addressed the Jury for
the Crown, and Mr Smith, at considerable length, for the pannel. After stating
the difficulty of his situation, as he could not say that the prisoner was inno-
cent, or that strong symptoms of suspicion did not attach to her, he mentioned,
that at so great a distance of time, it being now nearly six years since the mur-
der was committed, many persons who might at the time have brought evidence
to exculpate the prisoner, are now no more, and concluded with reminding the
jury of the peaceable character, and good name of the prisoner.

The Lord Justice Clerk then summed up the evidence, at great length, and
with his usual ability and clearness.

It was exactly a quarter to 11 o'clock when the Judge finished his charge, and
the Jury retired for 15 minutes, when the Foreman returned,....Verdict of mur-
der uot proven, but guilty of theft. Lord Pitmilly said, he could have no doubt
as to the sentence which should be pronounced. She had been acquitted of the
murder, and consequently of all accession to it, but no one could doubt that the
theft was of the most dreadful nature, aggravated by being perpetrated after as
foul and atrocious a murder as ever was known, and committed in the abode of
a murdered woman whose corpse still lay upon the ground. It amounted al-
most to a capital offence, and the Court would ill discharge their duty to pass a
milder sentence than transportation for life. Lord Meadowbank entirely con-
curred in the sentence, and

The Lord Justice Clerk, in passing judgment on the prisoner, said, she had
much reason to be thankful that the last sentence was not now pronounced on
her. It was necessary, however, that she should for ever be debarred from the
society of which she had shewn herself so unworthy. Her want of moral
feeling, and depravity of heart, made it necessary to remove her from the coun-
try under whose laws she had hitherto lived, to another region, where she would
meet many convicted of similar offences, though perhaps none more aggravated.
He would recommend to her, therefore, during the remainder of her existence,
to make her peace with that God whose law she had so fearfully violated, and
as she had a more awful tribunal to appear at, to prepare for it by a sincere and
timely repentance.

Edinburgh, Printed, for James Dougherty,....Price One Penny.Glasgow

TRIALS

An account of the names and crimes of the different
prisoners who have been tried at the Spring Circuit,
Glasgow, where the Honourable the Lord Justice-
C'lerk and  Lord  Moncrieff presided- John Thomas
Gordon, E.sq , Advocate-Depute.

The Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened by the Hon. Lords Justice
Clerk. and Moncriff'—John  thomas Gordon, Esq ; Advocate Depute—:
Their Lordships were escorted to the Star Inn, George Square;and from,
thence to the Court House, by a party of 'the First Dragoon Guards,and
a force of police, headed by the City Marshal, Captain Miller. About
half-past ten their Lordships took their seats upon the bench, when
principal Macfarlan opened the business of the circuit with an impressive
prayer.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21,  1841.

Mary Mills or Linten, for theft, &c., was sentenced to seven years'
transportation.
Agnes  Pollock for concea'ment of pregnancy, was sentenced to six
months' imprisonment.
Christion Thomson or M'Alpine,for theft, was transported for seven
years.
Thomas  Neil convicted of housebreaking and theft, was also sentenc-
ed to seven years' transportation.
D.M.Aulay, for  theft was sentenced  to seven years transportation,.
Thomas Donochie for the same offence, with  less aggravation. was
sentenced to eighteen months' imprisonment.
James Sweenie and James Graliam were sentenced, the former to 7
years  transportation, and  the  latter to six months' imprisonment, for
theft of a six handkerchief.
Grace  Wood was found guilty of steding a pocket-book and £70
from a gentleman with whom she had been m company. Sentence, 15
months' imprisonment. 
The Court adjourned at seven o'clock.
THURSDAY,   April 22
Andrew Pollock, charged with assault was sentenced to one months'
in prisonment..
James Anderson, Wm. Anderson, Jean Anderrson, and George
Hutchison deforeing officers  of the law. The three men were outlaw-
ed for non-appearance and the female  was dismissed from the bar.
Alex.  Campbell theft by housebreking and, previous eonviction, pled
guilty and as sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment.
W m Brown James Brown, Alex. Regan, and James    cuddy , theft by
housebreaking. The prisoners pled guilty. Wm and  James Brown,
7 years' transportation , and Reggan and  Cuddy nine months' imprison-
ment.                                                                                   
Margaret Stewart. theft ; seven years' transportation.
Andrew Haggart for breaking into, the warehouse of J. C.Henderson,
Argy I Street, Sentence, 7 years transportation.
John Develen pleaded guilty of assaulting James Brownlie, labourer,
on the Cambuslang  road, near Stonefield  three months imprisonment in
Hamilton  jail,
Allan  Connell, charged with culpable homicide, in haying driven a
noddy over a boy  m Anderson was dismissed from, the bar.
John Buchanan, theft of a piece of   Turkey red  cloth from a shop in,
elson street, was sentenced to seven years transportation.
Wm. Watson Cain charged with  breaking into St. Andrew's Episcopal
Chapel, and stealing a number of, books,    He was found guilty and sen-
tenced, to transportation for ten years.
FR1DAY,   April 23.
Dennis Hart or Doolan patt or patrick Reddan or Redding or Read-
dan or Eagan or Aitken, and James Hickie, were charged with, the mur-
der of John Green, a ganger on the Glasgow  and Edinburgh Railway,
near Bishopbridge, on the 10th December, 1841. Sixty-one witnesses
were cited in, this case. The prisoners pleaded not guilty, but after the
examination of witnesses, who proved the murder home to the panels,
they were sentenced to be Executed on Friday, 14th May, 1841. Hickie
was  recommended to mercy.

We intend to publish a Full Report of the Trial of Doolan and
others, on Saturday, the 24th April, l841.Be careful to ask for the.
authentic Edition printed by " Muir, 49,  Trongate, Glasgow"
                          Muir, Printer. Glasgow,

GLASGOW TRIALS.

WEDNESDAY, April 26, 1843.

The Circuit Court of justiciary was opened here to-day, Wednesday -
Lords Meadowbank and Cockkurn Judges; David Milne, Esq.Advocate
Depute. The Lord Provost and other civic functionaries, accompanied by
a party of the l2th Lancers, and a body of policemen, under the direc-
tion of Captain Miller, met their Lordships on the Garscube road near the
Round Toll, abont nine o'clock, and escorted them in procession first, to
Carrick's Royal Hotel, George Square, and then, from thence to the Court
House. - The Court was Constituted by prayer, by the Rev. Mr M'Letchie
of Blackfriar's Church ; after which the Court proceeded to the trial of

John M'Granachan, theft, Greenock.   7 year's transportation
Elizabeth, Brodie, theft, Gr enock     18 month's imprisonment
William Osborne and Felix Graham, theft from Paisley, by housebreaking
Not proven                                                
John Cook and Bernard Shields theft. by housebreaking, and James
Reid and William Whitelaw, reset and theft.  The two former sen enced
to 7 year's transportation, and the two la ter to 12 month's imprisonment
John M'Bryde, servant with John Mason, farmer at Bulloch's-mill, Ruth-
erglen, was accused of the crime of murder or capable homicide in so far
as on the 23 d o December, 1842 ,he did,  with a loaded gun, shoot John
Allan, labourer Havannah street. Glasgow, in a potatoe field, near Ruth-
erglen whereby he was deprived of life. He pleaded guilty to the crime
of culpable homicide. Sentence postponed
John M'Leod, theft, with aggravations     7 year's transportation           
William Walker, theft    7 year's transportation
Patrick Curran or Cairns, theft.    2 year's  imprisomnent
William Baxter and Thomas Scott. two boys   theft, by housebreaking.
The former  7 year's ,transportation  the latter 12 month's imprisonment
Charles O'Brien, theft    2 year's imprisonment                          
Elizabeth Muir, theft.    7 year's transportation'
Hugh Hannah theft by stealing 14 dozen shawls, the property of Mr.
M Leod, manufacturer; from a hurley barrow in Virginia Street. 7 year's 
transportation                                           
The Court adjourned at six o'clock, till nine next morning.
THURSDAY.
The Court resumed this morning at nine-o'clock.
Archd. Mitchell and William Cairns housebreaking in Paisley. 2 year's,
imprisonment
John Blair and William Speedy, accused of sheep and cattle  stealing,
Blair found guilty of both charge and Spe dy of stealing the cow but not
the sheep      They were sentenced to 7 year's transportation
John Gibson, 'carter, thheft     7 year's transportation
William Robertson  Christina  Robertson   Margaret M'Callum or Robert-
son, and Mary Murray, theft     William Robertson and Chris ina Robert-
son  sentenced to 7 year's transportation. Margaret Robertson 2 year's im-
prisonment and Mary Murray 18 month's imprisonment          
Janet M'Laren or  M' rthur , uttering base coin.  7 year's transportation
Richard Caffery and  Thos. Feahey, two  private soldiers, Paisley, assault.
The Jury returned a verdict against Fahey, charge against Caffery proven
in part.    Sentence delayed                                                               
John Smith, embezzlement, Saltmarket 7 year's  transportation
John  M'Ca lum forgery. 12 month's imprisonment
William Watt, Theft  by housebreaking.    Not guilty
John Cuthbertson and James M. Crae  theft     7.year's transportation
John Anderson, John Boyle, and William M'Phee, housebreaking, Cam.
budge street     Anderson  to  year's transportation, M'Phee 12 month's im
prisounment, Boyle not proven                                           
Hugh  Arrol, a boy, theft, London street. 2 year's imprisonment
John  Madigan, uttering base coin.    18 month's imprisonment
FRIDAY  
Richard Caffery and Thomas Fahey.    Each 12 month's imprisonment
Michael Currie, theft.    Not Guilty                                
Samuel Baird, uttering base coin     7 year's transportation
William M' Neil,  cutting and stabbing with a knife a girl in Greenock,
pled not gui ty after a long trial.  Trial going 'on when we went to press.
Charles M'Kay, accused of the murder of his wife, in so far as he did,
on the morning of  Sunday  the  18th  December,   1812, attack Catherine
M'Kechnie or M'Kay, his wife, in a house in the  Old-Wynd , and stab her
With a  large  ham knife,and mortally wounded her, by which she died in
a short time afterwards, when  a ter the examination  of a number of wit-
nesses, he  was found gu lty, and sentenced to be executed on Thursday
the 18th May, betwixt the hours of 8 and 10,

Muir, Printer, Glasgow .Glasgow Winter, 

ASSIZES

GLASGOW, 22d DECEMBER, 1828.—This day the EXTRA Assize was opened here
by the Hon. Lords Gillies and Alloway, and after the usual solemnities had been gone
through, the Court proceeded to business.

We understand that the trial of Edward Moore, for the murder of his wife at Stonelaw, near
Rutherglen, has been postponed for the present, in consequence of a principal witness having
been discovered, whose evidence will go far to establish the case for the prosecution.

Alexander M'Lean, for theft, was outlawed for not appearing.
Andrew Nimmo, for stealing several articles of wearing apparei from a washing house in
Paisley; pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
Robert Glen, for breaking into a warehouse in Dumbarton, and stealing some money there-
from, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
John Williamson, for forging a letter of guarantee, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
Robert Stevenson and John Templeton, for stealing two bee skeps, from a garden near
paisley. Templeton was outlawed, and Stevenson pled guilty; 9 months in Paisley bridewell.
Sarah Orrill Johnston or Sarah Orrill, for stealing a gallon of whisky and  pewter measure
from a spirit cellar in Stockwell Street, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
James Sproull and Charles Small, from Paisley, the former for theft and the latter for reset,
pled guilty; Sproull, 7 years transportation, and the latter 12 months in Paisley Bridewell.
Thomas M'Innally, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
Peter Deavis, manufacturer, Paisley, for resetting a quantity of silk, was found guilty; 14
years transportation.
James Watt alias Keeky, for stealing a silver watch from a house in Calton, pled guilty;  7
years transportation.
Robert Hay, for assault, pled guilty; three months imrisonment in Glasgow Jail
Alexander Waddell, Sen., Alexander Waddell, Jun., and James Strathern, from Airdrie, for
apprehending a person of weak mind, pretending they had a warrant against him, stripping him
of his clothes, and dragging him to Airdrie lock up house, were found guilty. This case is to be
certified to the High Court of Justicrary.

TUESDAY.—The Court met this day  at 10 o'clock.

James Masshall, for falsehood and forgery. The trial did not come on, but the diet was
continued against the prisonee.
John,M'Gowan, for stealing some fire irons from a shop in Saltmarkat, pled guilty; 14
years transportation.
John Ogilvie and Charles Rowan, for stealing some wrights' tools from a house in the Col-
lege buildings, were found guilty; Ogilvy 14 years transportation, and Rowan 7 years.
John,,Tweddel,from Paisley, for four different acts of house stealing, was next placed at the
bar. He first pled Guilty, and  when told the libel could not be, restricted., he pled Not Guilty,
and again retracted his plea and pled Guilty. Several witnesses gave him an excellent charac-
ter, previous to the commission of these crimes, and he was unanimously recommended to mer-
ey. After a suaitable address from Lord Gillies, he was sentenced to be executed at Glasgow
on Wednesday the 4th day of February, between 8 and 10 in the morning.
He was also indicted for forgery, fraud, and imposition, but of course it will not be procee -
ed in. The prisoner had been at one time in a respectable situation in life.  His father at one
period kept the head Inn in East Kilbride, but having been also indicted for forgery and fraud,
and having failed to appear he was outlawed.
John shaw, for breaking into the cabin of the William Huskisson steam boat, and staling a
silver watch, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
David Harvie, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.
Alexander Robertson and John Murray, from Paisley, for different acts of theft, were found
guilty, 14 years transportation.

                                                                                                     printer, Glasgow.Trial & Sentence

OF

JAMES BELL, Private in the Fifth Dragoon Guards, for the
Murder of Serjeant-major Moorhead, by shooting him with a
pistol, at Piershill Barrachs, on Sunday the 17th May last.

Monday, June 22d,  1835.

JAMES BELL, private of the Fifth Dragoon Guards, was
then put to the bar, charged with the Murder of serjeant-major
William Moorhead of said regiment: In so far as, upon the 17th
day of May last, at Piershill Barracks, be, did wickedly and feloni-
ously " fire off and discharge, at and against his person, a pistol or
other fire-arms, loaded with gunpowder, and with a leaden bullet,
or some other hard substance to the Prosecutor unknown, and did
thereby wound him severely in or near his back, in consequence of
which he was mortally wounded in his person, and died on or about
the 25th day of May 1335."

The prisoner's counsel gave in written defences, denying gene-
rally the charges set forth in the indictment, and pleading that he
was insane at the time libelled.

George Tait, Sheriff-Substitute identified the declaration made
by the prisoner on Monday the 18th, and deponed, that he ap-
peared then perfectly sane and collected, and emitted freely and
voluntarily, that he was also at his second deckration of the
27th—-In which he was fully corroborated by, Archibald Scott,
Procurator Fiscal, and R. J. Moxey, the Sheriff Clerk.

Private George Smith was at morning parade with the prisoner,
and heard him apply to Serjeant Bracken for leave of absense, who
reported it to Serjeant Major Moorhead, who said that no man
would get leave of absence from the stables that day, when Bell
muttered some answer which he did not hear. Saw Bell after-
wards speaking to Captain King for leave, in which he did not suc-
ceed, and saw him also at the stables at 12 and 3 o'clock, and again
at roll call at 7. About ¼ past 7 he saw him coming to the stables,
No. 18, where Serjeant Moorhead was standing inside with his 
back towards the door, and when at about 3 yards distance, saw
him present and fire the pistol, when Moorhead fell upon his right
knee, crying " O God, O God, O God." Identifies the pistol mark-
ed E 9 to be that which was in charge of the prisoner.

Private John Calinan was in No. 13 at evening stables, where
Moorhead with his back towards the door, heard the report of a
pistol from behind, and turned instantly round, when he saw Bell
walking away from the stable door, with the pistol in his hand ;
went after him, and he, Corporal Baxter, and Patrick Egan seized
him, took the pistol from him, and conveyed him to the guard-
house,—the prisoner exclaiming, " Ladies and Gentlemen,   look
here, I have shot the tyrant who tyranized over the troop and me
too."

Corporal Martin Baxter, and Private Patrick Egan corroborated
the foregoing statement of Calinans

Private William Graham saw the prisoner with  a  pistol  in his
hand near the outside of the stable door, as  he was going f r a
bucket of water, who asked where Moorhead was when he told him
he was within.    Had not gone  2 or 3 paces. when he heard the re-
port of a pistol, and turning, saw Bell seized by Baxter a few steps
from the door, whtn he said, "You're down, you b------r.    If I did
not do good for myself, I have done it for my comrades."

Adjutant Henry Ash was in the mess-room, when it was report-
ed that a shot had been fired, and by Major Scarlett's orders sent
off his servant for a surgeon.  He went to the black hole and or-
dered the prisoner to be searched and handcuffed, when he heard
him say, " I hope I have done it effectually, have I comrades."

Dr Galbraith Logan attended the deceased from the day of re-
ceiving the wound till his death, and along with Sir George Bal-
lingal opened the body, when they found that the ball had lodged
in the spinal marrow, which no doubt had caused  his death.

Sir George Ballingall corroborated this statement.

A number of exculpatory witnesses were called, endeavouring to
establish Moorhead's severity in duty, and the prisoner labouring
occasionally, or at the time under a fit of mental derangement.

The Jury were addressed by the Solicitor-General for the Crown
and by the Advocate for the pannel, bath at considerable length ;
after which the Lord Justice Clerk went over the evidence with his
usual ability, when the Jury returned a verdict of Guilty.

The pannel was then sentenced to be executed on Monday the
13th of July next, at the usual place of execution.

Sanderson, Printer, High Street, Edinburgh

TRIAL

Full, True, and Particular Account of the Trial and Conviction this
day, before the High Court of Justiciary, of the Great and  most
Notorious Thief John Wilson, and of his Companions Duncan
Robertson and Thomas Hamilton, for Three different Robberies
and Housebreakings, committed in Edinburgh,—together with the
full Evidence given by the Accomplice John Gibson, formerly a
respectable Merchant on the South Bridge.

HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.-----JULY, 3, 1831.

John William shoemaker, Duncan Robertson, carver and gilder, and
Thomas Hamilton jeweller, were charged with three several act of
theft, aggravated by their having opened lockfast places for the accom-
plishment oft the crimes, and further aggravated by all the three priso
sers being habit and repute common thieves,— the said acts of theft
and opening of lockfast places being all committed on the evening and
the of she  February last, and being as follows, via. :—

1 st. Entering the shop of  Mr  Vallance grocer, Laurieston, in the
back room of which two of the  prisoners broke open a trunk, and
stole therefrom a forged guinea note, purporting to be a note of the
Royal Bank of Scotland.

2d Entering the shop of Mr Hogg, spirit dealer, Main Point, and
stealing from a back room, seveteen shillings, a watch, ribbon, seal,

3d. Entering the premises of Mr Finlay, spirit dealer, Bruntsfield
Links, and steailng from an apartment therein, six silk pocket hand-
kerchiefa, a pair of gold ear nings, a gold breast pin, and a gold finger
ring with a stone set it, by forcing open a lockfast drawer.
The prisoners had gone to all these different houses in succession
one after the other, between the hours of six and nine o'clock in the
evening, and on pretence of drinking a gill or two of whisky at each
place, succeeded in effecting all the three robberies in so short a space
of time.

Mrs. Vallance and her servant maid, Mrs. Hogg and her niece and
Mrs. Finlay and her maid servant, proved, amongst them, the forcing
open of the different lockfast places - the stealing therefrom of the
different articles libelled and most of those witnesses spoke to the
identity of one or other of the prisoners, as having been in their pre-
mises on the night of the commission of the crimes.

Jhon Gibson. formerly a haberdasher on the South Bridge, after-
wards an auctioner, and since convicted before the Police Court of

South Bridge., and also of having knowingly uttered base and counter-
feit money, was concerned  with the prisoners in the acomplishment of
the robberies; but having been admitted at a witness for the Crown,
he was placed in the ,witness, box.

 John Gibson (the accomplice) having been duly sworn and cautioned

deponed that on the night of the robberies he met the prisoner at the

South Back of Heroit's Hospital Robertson and Hamilton went into

Vallance's Wilson and the witness remaining outside. After a little,
 time Wilson gave witness a shillings. desiring him to go into Vallance
shop and to buy first, one half pound of cheese and then another, and
otherwise to occupy the attention of the girl in the shop as long as
possible so as to prevent  her hearing whatever night be going on in
the back room. He did so; and when Robertson and Hamilton

came out they said they had only gotten a banknote which they

produced and gave to Wilson.—They then went to Mr  Kings, where

Robertson and Hamilton again went in,and where the witness again

performed the part of the drawing off the attention of the persons in the

shop while the theft libelled was accomplished -They next went to
Finlay's where all four went into the house Robertson and Hamilton

into one room and Wilson and witness into another. The robbery

there was effected by Robertson and Hamilton.— They went lastly to
the shop of Mr Bobertson, spirit dealer, Charlotte Street. Wilson and
witness went in first, and had a gill of whisky, lor which Wilson paid
sixpence. Robertson and Hamilton then joined them in this house,
upon which they called another gill, and Wilson entered in payment
of it the guinea note stolen from Vallance's but Mr Robortson the
landlord refused to take it, as be thought it a forgery. The wit.

ness then went and got change of the note at the shop of a grocer in

George Street-    Witness received 4s.6d and a silk handkerchief for

bit share of the plunder.

The evidence of the accomplice, Gibson, was completely borne out
 by other witnesses.

       Each of the Prisoners had Counsel,  who made long and eloquent
  speeches in their behalf.
      The Public Prosecutor restricted the libel.

At twenty minutes past six o clock, the Jury gave an unanimous
 verdict of Guilty against all the prisoners, on all the three charges'
with the aggravations as libelled.

sentence was deferred ; but we shall priut it it is a Second  traditoon,
 together with a fall report of another important Trial which is now

   going on.                             _______

                                       Forbes  and Owen, Printers.

MURDER, &C



Full True, and Particular Account of the apprehension of three men.
for that most horrid Murder committed upon the Body of Helen
Mackenzie, in Ross shire—a murder which has excited so much
horror throughout all Scotland, that the Lord Advocate sent Mr
Stoddart, Advocate, into Ross-shire, for the express purpose of trying
to discover the murderers.

ALSO,—A: Full, True, and Particular Account of the evidence
against Captain Wilson of the ship Armenia, for Murdering John
Smith, seaman, by most barbarous and cruel usage while at sea on
der his command.                                            

LIKEWISE,—An Account of the Extraordinary Funeral of Radama,

The Late Murder in Ross shire. — Three Men .Apprehendad —So anxious
have the officers of the Crown in Edinburgh been that every possible,
inquiry should be made into the murder of Helon Mackenzie, that J.
F. Stoddart, Esq advocate, has been sent to Ross shire to superintend
renewed investigations

On Monday, this gentleman, accompanied by the Shoriff and Pro-
curator Fiscal, proceeded to Invergordon, where they still continue
taking precognitions. During the examination of some of the wit-
tnesses, circumstances were elicited which induced the authorities to,
order two men (one of them the deceased's nephew), residing at Bar-
baraville, near the Church of Kimuir. to be apprehended. In their
progress to Barbaraville, the officers observed a man run oft on seeing
them approach—they instantly pursued, and, with some difficulty,
succeeded in securing him; he proved to be the nephew of the decease.
ed—The officers then took into custody the two men, and also a shot-
maker, who resides about a hundred yards from the house which poor
Helen occupied. On Thursday they were taken in the mail coach
from Invergordon to Tain, and lodged in jail there, where they are

While on the coach, the prisoners were not permitted to bold any
communication with each other; one of them was placed in the forepart
of the coach, one behind, and the third inside. The shoemaker, Helen's
neighbour observed to a person sifting close by him, ' I am happy
that I have been apprehended, that the ease may be sifted ; for, as I

I am entirely innocent, and I know I will soon be set at liberty ; but
as for that man inside (meaning the deceased's nephew) he is the
murderer he has not been sober since A knife, the handle of
which is covered with blood, and a petticoat have been found, which it

One of the prisoners, on his first examination, we understand, stated
that he received no part of the deceased's property, but his wife con-
tradicted this, and mentioned that he had, some days after the murder,
taken L 14 out of Helen's house, and gave as a reason for doing so
that he was afraid others who have a better legal tittle to cash would
have carried it off. Some of the prisoners, it has been observed, have
had more money since the murder than they could honestly have come
by. A man and a woman, who were ordered to be taken into cus-
tody, left the district some weeks ago, hut are now, we learn, in Aber
deenshire, and will be brought back.

Murder at Sea.—On Friday an inquest was held in the Vestry of
St John's Church, Horseleydown, on the body of John Smith, aged
19 years, whose death, it was alleged, was caused by a series of the
most inhuman barbarities inflicted by Daniel Wilson, the Captain of
the Armenia trading vessel, during a voyage from Belfast to St.
Michael's, and from thence to London. The Jury viewed the body
which bore marks of contusion and laceration, particularly about the
loins. On quitting St Michael'., the Captain beat the deceased daily
about a week after they sailed from St. Michael's, the Captain beat him
with the stick of the vine staff, which is two inches and a half thick,
for taking some oranges ; the deceased was so ill, he could not do his
duty, and the Captain knocked him down and kicked him as be lay
on the ground
On one occasion he beat the deceased with an outall (a thick rope)
till his face streamed with blood, and his nose was slit open. The de-
ceased was sent to the fore top crosstress for fifteen. hours at a time
without his jacket, and his allowance kept from him. Four days be-
fore he died the Captain went into the forecastle; and beat the deceas.
ed about the head with  quart pot, and nearly a quart of blood came
from him- The deceased was often lashed to the main shrouds, and
the boys were ordered by the Captain to flog him, and when they
did not obey they were flogged. The deceased from continual nl-.
usage became deranged, and expired two days before the vessel ar-
rived at Gravesend. The Jury returned a verdict of.' Wilful Murder
against Daniel Wilson, the Captain of the Armenia.

The Funeral of Radama, King of Madagascar, which took place on
the 13th of August, 1828, appears, from the account of the mission-
aries in that pland, to have vied in splendour  and extravagance with
the most costly of European entombments . They estimate the ex-
pense at L. 60,000 sterling, including the case of 20,000 oxen, worth
Ave Spanish dollars each, killed and distributed among the people
during the days of preparation for, and at the ceremony, The large
and massy coffin which received the royal remains was of beaten sil-
ver ; it was about eight feet long, and three and a half deep, formed
of plates strongly rivetted together with nails of the same metal, all
made from Spanish dollars, of which twelve thousand were employed
at  the construction. Ten thousand more in specie were placed in-
side by way of bed for the corpse to recline on. Eighty rich suits of
uniform, of British manufacture, a golden helmet, gorget, epaulettes',
and spurs, with a variety of valuable and highly ornamented arms,
watches, rings, and trinkets, a splendid service of silver plate, and 
magnificent cup of solid gold, said la have been a present from the
King of England, are enumerated strong the valuable  enclosed in  the
royal tomb.

Extravagant as these people are in the expense they incur  their
funerals, this appears to have tar exceeded all preceding ceremonies
the same kind m that respect, which may be accounted for by the fact
of no sovereign in that country having ever died possessed of one-fifth
of the riches of Radama.



FORBES & OWEN Printers No.118,High Street First stair in the Close.

Trial and Sentence.



A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of John
Thomson and David Dobie, carters, Gilmerton, who are to be
Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th August 1830,
for the Assault, Rape, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Pater-
son, and their Bodies to be given for dissection.

THIS day, Monday the 12th July 1830, came on,  at Edinburgh,  the trial of
John Thomson and David Dobie, carters in Gilmerton, near Edinburgh, ac-
cused of Rape, or assault with intent to Ravish, and of Murder and Robbery ; to
all of which the panels pled  Not Guilty.

Their indictment set forth, that " the deceased   Margaret Paterson, daughter of
William Paterson, now or lately residing in Amos close, Dalkeith, in the county of
Edinburgh, having, on the 17th day of April 1830, or on one or other of the days
of that month, or of March immediately preceding, or of May immediately follow-
ing, met with you the said John Thomson and David Dobie, or one or other of you,
within the house at Cellar bank or Cellar park, in the parish of Libberton, and shire
aforesaid, then and now or lately occupied by Colin Pentland,  now or lately carter
and publican there, and having applied to you, or one or other of you, to convey
her from the said house to the village of Gilmerton, in the parish and county afore-
said, in one or other of your carts, which were then standing at or near the door of
the said house, and you the said John Thomson and David Dobie, or one or other
of you, having agreed to convey the said deceased   Margaret  Paterson to the said
village of Gilmerton ; and the said deceased Margaret Paterson, having accordingly
left the said house and having proceeded in company with you,  or one or other of
you, along the road leading from  the said house to the village of Gilmerton afore-
said, either by the new cross-road at. Cameron   Bridge, in the parish and county
aforesaid, or by the cross-road at Craigs, in the parish and county aforesaid, the
particular road taken by you being to the Prosecutor unknown, you  the said John
Thomson and David Dobie did, time aforesaid, at or near that part of the road be-
tween Edinburgh and Gilmerton aforesaid, which lies within  the said parish and
county, contiguous to the third mile-stone from Edinburgh, and a little to the south
of the lodge or gate leading to the house of Moredun, in the said parish and county,
or at some other part of the said road leading from Cellar bank or Cellar park afore-
said to the village of Gilmerton   aforesaid, by one or other of the said cross-roads,
the particular spot being to the Prosecutor unknown, wickedly and feloniously attack
and assault the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did both and each, or one or
other of you, throw her on her back, and did hold  her down by force, and have
carnal knowledge of her person, forcibly and against her will, notwithstanding every
resistance in her power, and did ravish her: Or otherwise,you the  said John Thom-
son and David Dobie did, both or each, or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at
or near to the part of the road between Edinburgh  and Gilmerton aforesaid, which
lies contiguous to the third mile-stone,  as particularly above described,  or at some
other part to the Prosecutor unknown, of the road leading from the said  house at
Cellar bank or Cellar park aforesaid to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid, or by one
or other of the said cross-roads, wickedly and feloniously attack and assault the said
deceased Margaret Paterson with intent to ravish her,  and did  throw her on  her
back, and hold her down by force, and did pull up her petticoats, and use Indecent
liberties with her person, and did attempt to have carnal knowledge of her person,
forcibly and against her will: .Likeas, you the said John  thomson and David Dobie
did, both and each, or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at or near the part of the
road between Edinburgh and Gilmerton aforesaid, which lies Contigucus to the third
mile-stone, as particularly above described, or at some other part to the Prosecutor
unknown of the road leading from the house at Cellar bank or Cellar park atoresaid
to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid, or one or other of the said cross-roads, wickedly
and feloniously attack and assault the said deceased  Margaret  Paterson,  and did
strike her several severe blows with your fists,  and did kick her on the head and
sides, and other parts of the body,  whereby she  was  rendered insensible,  and did
thrust an angular piece of stone, a quantity of hay,  and a number of small pieces of
coal, and coal dust, into the private parts of the deceased  Margaret Paterson, and
did thrust the stick of the corsets then worn by the said Margaret Paterson, or some
other instrument to the Prosecutor unknown, up her fuudament, and did thrust two
angular pieces of stone up her fundament, whereby the said deceased Margaret Pater-
son was greviously cut and torn in the inward parts of her body, to the severe injury
of her person, and great effusion of  her blood ; and you the said John Thomson and
David Dobie did cruelly and inhumanly leave the said deceased  Margaret Paterson,
at or near to that part of the road  between  Edinburgh and  Gilmerton aforesaid,
which lies contiguous to the third mile-stone, as particularly above described ; and,
in consequence of the injures so inflicted,   or of one or other of them, the said de-
ceased Margaret Paterson languished till her death, which took place in the house in
Amos close aforesaid, then and now or lately occupied by the said   William Pater-
son, her father, on the 22d day of April 1830 ; and the deceased Margaret Paterson
was thus cruelly murdered by you the said John Thomson and David Dobie, or by
one or other of you : Likeas, you the said John Thomson and David Dobie did,
both and each, or one or other of you, time aforesaid, at or near the part of the road
between Edinburgh and Gilmerton aforesaid, which lies contiguous to the third mile-
stone, as   particularly  above  described, or  at some  other to  the   Prosecutor  un-
known of the road leading from  the said house at Cellar bank or Cellar park afore-
said to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid,   by one or other of the said cross-roads,
wickedly and feloniously rob the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did take from
her, by force and violence, a gold ear-ring, a small tin-box, two pawn-tickets for
gowns, one pledged for 3s. 6d. and the other for 4s., three shillings and sixpence or
thereby in silver money, a key, a checked cotton or muslin handkerchief, a green
shawl, a coarse towel, some pieces of card or pasteboard, and some pieces of bread
and meat, being all the property or in the lawful possession of the said deceased
Margaret Paterson."

From the delicate nature of the crimes libelled against the prisoners, the evidence
cannot be detailed here, the proceedings being conducted with closed doors; but
after a long and interesting trial, they were both found Guilty, and, after a solemn
address, were both sentenced to be executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th
August next, and their bodies to be given for dissection.

Printed for Wm. Robertson. Trial  and Sentence

A Full and .Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence'of CHARLES M'EWEN, who is to be Exe-
cuted at Edinburgh, ou Wednesday the 7th of April.
1824,for the Barbarous Murder of Margaret Mo-
ney, and his body to be given for dissection.

YESTERDAY, March 1, 1824, came On before the High Court
 of Justiciary, the Trial of Roders M'Leod, alias John M'In-
tyre, alias Charles M'Intosh, alias Charles M'Ewen, alias Charles
M,Kay, accused of the wilful murder of Margaret Money, with 
whom he had previously cohabited as man and wife, by striking 
her on the head with a small iron anvil, on Thursday the 9th of
October, 1823, on the uninhabited, moor or mountain, commonly
called the Firmonth, and at a  part near to the junction of the shires
of  Aberdeen and Forfar, and in the immediate vicinity of a Loch
called. Lochmavens..

The prisoner pled Not Guilty.    The anvil, a coat, and pair of

trowsers,  stained  with  blood, with various articles of  women's  

wearing apparel, all stained with blood, were brought before the

court,    Two declarations, emitted before the Sheriff substitute of

Aberdeenshire,  and two surgical reports, dated and, signed, were

also produced to the court.

The List contained 42 witnesses, but a few were only examined.
The evidence showed that the murder was deliberately commit-
ted, without any provocation ; it was proved by the people of the
house, where they slept the night previous to the murder, that they
both left, the house in good humour; and he had taken the most
unfrequented part of the road to commit the horrid deed.

Three witnesses who were present when Dr Garie compared the
anvil with the wounds,.proved either that they corresponded exactly,
or that they were as near alike as any one would expect or imagine.

Two ather witnesses deposed that they saw the deceased and the
prisoner together proceeding towards Firmouth. On his arrival at
the the first-house his trowsers were dripping with rain and blood,
and there were  marks below his knees as though he had knelt in
blood. Ae was restless of night, and frequently called for. whisky.
On the Saturday he asked his landlord if he had heard of the wo-
man being killed on Firmouth ; and on the witness's saying he did
not believe it he said it was certainly true, for he had seen her all
over blood, as he passed, and she surely had been murdered.

The Lord Justice Clerk having summed up the evidence at full
length, with his usual clearness, the jury without leaving the box,
returned as unanimous verdict of Guilty against the pannel.

His Lordship, after a most impressive address, in which he re
commended to the prisoner to employ the few remaining days
he is allowed on earth in the important works of repentance, and
to endeavour, by the deepest contrition and heartfelt sorrow for.
his past offences, to make his peace with that God against whom
he had so heinously sinned, by the perpetration of a crime, of all
others the most foul and detestable: after the address, the panel
asked liberty to speak for a minute, which was not granted.

His Lordship then proceeded to pronounce upon the unfortunate
man the awful sentence of the law, which was, that he is to be
hanged by the hands of the public executioner, on Wednesday the
7th day of April next, at the head of Libbertons's Wynd, betwixt
the hour of eight and ten in the morning; and his body thereafter
to be given to Dr Alex. Monro to be dissected and anatomized.
The prisoner then said, " Thank your Lordship, but I'll die in-
nocent.

M'Ewan is a tall,stout-made man, and stood with a firmness,
and composure bordering on hardenednes, during the address
and. pronouncing of the sentence.                                              

Edinburgh, Printed, for James Doghety, Price One Penny.

Trial and Sentence.

A Full, True and Particular Account of the Trial
and Sentence of Thomas Beveridge, who is to be
executed on the 2d of December next, for the
Murder of his Wife, on the 2d of October, 1831,
and his body given for dissection.

Yesterday, Monday the 14th November, 1831, came on the trial of
Thomas Beveridge, indicted for murder, in so far as on the 2d of
October, the said Thomas Beveridge did, within or near the
house situated in Little Jack's Close, Canongate, attack and assault
the deceased Janet Greig or Beveridge, his wife, with a poker, a fire
shovel, and a knife, or with one or more of the said instruments,
strike and cut her repeatedly on the head, face, hands, arms, legs
and thighs, and did inflict upon her numerous severe wounds, in
consequence of which she died in the course of the same day in the
Royal Infirmary, to which she had been conveyed, and there died.
The pannel pleaded not guilty.

John Hamilton, blacksmith, was in the pannel's house on the mor-
ning Mrs Beveridge died, she and the pannel were quarreling; she
was then in good health; he complained of her being addicted to
drink, and said he had given up striking her, for it was of no use.

John Grant, wright, lived next door to the pannel, and frequently
heard quarreling between him and his wife, and cries of murder, on
Sunday night the 2d October, between four and six, heard faint cries
of " oh, oh," and then a faint scream, but paid no particular attention
because he often heard such sounds. Also heard a noise as of a
chair rumbling and something trailing on the floor. Supposed that
the scream was that of Mrs Beveridge, but the noise was much
fainter than her usual cries. She was wont to bawl out lustily.
Did not hear Beveridge's voice. About six o'clock witness's son said
there is Beveridge away out, this was after the cries were heard. Be-
tween sik and seven the pannel's daughter and another girl came and
knocked at the door, and having got in, a Mrs Edwards sent one
of the girls for witness, who, on going into Beveridge's house found
Mrs Beverage sitting on a chair. Could scarcely look at her ; her
mouth and face was covered with blood, and her nose shoved up.
She was quite insensible : and a drop of water put into her mouth
gurgled in her throat. Her clothes were as if water had been
thrown on her, and the floor was wet. There was a sort of hallow
inside the door, where a large quantity of blood and water had lodged,
the furniture of the house was all in confusion. Beveridge and his
wife did not agree well, this he ascribed to her being much addicted
to drinking,

Mrs Suttle, a near neighbour, then gave evidence, as did Peter Grant,
printer, relative to hearing quarrelling and heary moaning from the
house of Beveridge : when James Gray, a blacksmith, whose evidence
was taken down, as being grossly false, prevaricating, and attempting
to conceal the truth. Gray was summarily proceeded against, and
sentenced to imprisonment for three kalendar months. John Garret,
was with Gray at the door knocking, but received no answer; was
in Coverly's about seven, when Beveridge came in, when he said,
" there's the very man, why did you deny yourself and not let us in ?'
Beveridge replied, " upon my soul, Jamie, I was up stairs in the door
above, had you come there you would have got me."

Several other witnesses were afterwards examined, who described
the state in which Mrs Beveridge was found on the floor : on being
asked by Catherine Biggar, who had done that to her, she said
faintly, ' You need not ask that.' A long medical report was read
by Dr Liston, from which it appeared that the deceased bore the
marks of a great number of contusions, in consequence of which
she died. The prisoner's declarations were then read ; after which
the Solicitor General addressed the Jury, and was followed by Mr
Skene for the prisoner.

The Lord Justice Clerk charged the Jury, and went over  the evi-
dence with his usual minuteness. The Jury, without leaving the
box, unanimously found the prisoner guilty, After several severe
remarks on the enormity of the crime by Lords Meadowbank,
Moncrieff, and Medwyn, the Lord Justice Clerk addressed the pri-
soner at considerable length, and concluded by saying, " that the
prisoner would now see the miserable effect of his attempts to con-
ceal the truth, and that all these attempts were futile. His lordship
then pronounced the fatal sentence that the prisoner be executed on
the 2d December, and his body given to Dr Munro for dissection."

Edinburgh .-—Printed for George Craig.—.Price One PennyTRIALS.



GLASGOW, 26th April, 1826.

Yesterday, the Justiciary Court was opened here by Lord- Meadowbank and
Mackesnzie, when it proceeded with the trial of Duncan M'Arthur, Margaret
Love, and Catherine  Fitzgerald, charged with stealing a trunk, containing a
great many  articles  of wearing apparel belonging to Lord strathallan. The
former  transportation for life, and love and Fitzgerald for 14 years.

Thomas lnnes was charged with knocking  down and robbing James Hamil-
ton, weaver, of some bundles 9s.6d. of money, at the Gallowgate toll-bar,
on the 9th January last .    Not proven and dismissed  from the bar.

James Donaldson, robbery ; 14 years transportation.

James  Reid  was accused of stealing  some old iron, to which be pleaded
guilty. Sentence—Bridewell for 10 months.

Thomas Young  was  charged  with  robbing Matthew  Bell of a watch and its
appendages. The pilsoner  pleaded guilty.  sentence— Bridewell for 12 months.

Thomas M' Gregor, charged with  uttering  forged notes.   Dismissed.

Samuel  Thomson charged  with uttering forged  notes.      knowing the same to
be  forged.   The  prisoner  pleaded gullty.    sentence—14 years transportation.

James Dollan. and Robert  Sym, charged with robbery; Dollan was found
guilty, and sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 7th of
[ ] next.  Sym was sentenced to transportation for life.

Robert Mitchell Forrester, assault was outlawed for non-appearance.

Jean Livingsten was charged with stealing  L. 15 from the person of Neil
Walker, and of being habit and repate  a thief. 14 years trasportations.

Neil Johnston, cotton-spinner,was charged with stealing a silver watch.
Sentenced to  transportation  for 14 years.

Margaret Millar was charged with having at various times, by means of a
false key, catered a house in O d Wynd, 14 years  transportation.

John M'Laren, theft, pled Guilty ; sentenced to Bridewell for six months.

Alexander  M'Kenzie stealing a  silver   watch from the schooner Lord

Nelson, lying at Port Duadas —Guility, sentenced to  Bridewell for 12 months.

James Thomson, James M 'Donald, and John Semple were  charged with
breaking in to the house of Janet wilson, and stealing a  verity of arlicles, pled, 
not guity. M'Donald and Semple acquitted, and Thomson sentenced to 7
years transportation.

James M'Lachlan was charged with robbing Diederih Altmann Greenock
of a silver  watch ; libel not proven, and he was dismissed from the bar.

Peter Lennox and John King  housebreaking; 14 years transportation.

Catherine M'Leod  was charged with having  malicously and wilfully cut 
Walter Heatherington,  in the right  temple with a shoemaker's   knife, pled not
guilty. The Jury  returned a verdict of guilty. sentence not passed.

Peter M'Aulay cotton spinner, was  charged with breaking into the house
of Mr. John Anderson changekeeper,   Calton, and stealing a quantity  of wear-
ing apparel; he  was found guilty, and sentenced to 14 years transportation.

Thursday-This morning  Thomas M'Kenna and  Dennis Murphy  were
convicted of theft and housebreaking.   After an impressive  address from the
Judge to the pannele warning them to hold out no hopes  of mercy in this
world, they were sentenced to be Executed at  Glasgow  on the 14th June next.

James Kirkland, stabbing and wounding; 3 months imprisonment.

John M'Kenzie and Dan. M Kay theft; the former 18 months Bridewell,
the latter dismissed.

Alexr. Baird, Alex. Baird  jun & George Kerr, mobbing;  2 months in jail.

Charles Camphell, accused   of murder at Budgeton, was proved to be insane,
and is to be confined  during the term of his natural life. 

John  Watson intent to commit rapes 12 months in  Bridewell.

Daniel Paterson, intent at rape; sentence delayed.                                

Jean Bell, accused of child murder; 3 months in Bridewell.

John Campbell, uttering forged notes; 14 years transportation. 

John Grant and Peter Stuart, assault and robbery not proven, dismissed.

James Park, shooting and wounding; Not Guilty.

William Hunter, housebreaking and theft; 14 years transportations, 

James steel, assault; dismissed. 

Joseph Wilson and Thomsas Hamilton, robbery; the former goes to Edin- 
burgh; the latter liberated.

Wm. Walker, Daniel Mulholland and Jean Gray, housebreaking; the two
former dismissed, and the womon to be transported 14 years.

Robert Galbraith,  housbresking. Dismissed. 

[    ] Printer, Glasgow                                   Trials & Sentences

Glasgow, April 12th, 1824,—This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened      
here by the Right Hon. the Lords Gillies and Meadowbank, when, after an appro-
priate prayer by the Rev. Mr. Muir, St. James's, the Court proceeded to examine
the following cases :                                                                              

John M'Nee, accused of theft; John M'Farlane of a rape ; Daniel Montgomery
and James Hunter, of assault and hamesucken, were outlawed for non-appearance.

Thomas M'Lachlan, for theft of a horse, pled Guilty, and was sentenced to 12
months' hard labour in Bridewell.                                             

Archibald Gibson, who was outlawed at last Circuit, accused of assaulting and rob-
bing Mr. Maxwell on the Little Govan Road ; libel not proven, and he was dismissed.
Colin Campbell, an accomplice and witness, was committed for prevarication.           

Robert Thomson, for theft in Greenock, and being habit and repute a thief, pled
Guilty, and was sentenced to 7 years transportation.

Frederick Forrester, accused, of  falsehood, fraud,  forgery, and wilful imposition, 
pled Guilty.    Sentenced to 14  years' transportation.       

Margaret Gordon, accused of theft and housebreaking, and being habit and repute
a thief, pled Guilty.    Sentence—14 years' transportation.

Maria Kelly, accused of uttering a forged 1l. note of the Glasgow Bank. Libel not
proven, and she was dismissed from the bar.

Tuesday, April 13th, 1824.—Alexander Stevenson and Ann Livingstone, accused
of theft, by opening lock-fast places, were found Guilty, and sentenced to 11 years'
transportation. Livingstone exclaimed, " I hope your Lordship will be in h—l before
that period."                                                                                                

John Dougherty, a seafaring man, accused of stealing a ferry-boat, near Cardross,  
was found Guilty, and sentenced to 1 year's imprisonment.

W. M'Alister, H. Gallochar, and John M'Donald, for theft in Greenock, were
sound Guilty ;the first two to be transported 14 years, and the last to 9 months im-
prisonment in Paisley jail. 

J. H. Thomson, for theft in Paisley, found Guilty ; to be transported 7 years.
Peter Kelly, accused of culpable homicide, was dismissed.

T. Smith and J. M'Lintock, housebreaking, theft, and habit and repute thieves,
were found Guilty, and sentenced to 14 years' transportation.

Francis Weir accused of theft, was found Guilty, to be transported 14 years.
J. Robertson,for robbery, was brought forward, and sent back to prison.              

S. M'Menemy, falsehood, fraud, wilful imposition, and embezzlement, pled guilty.
Goes to Edinburgh for sentence.

William M'Teague and Margaret M'Teague, for uttering forged notes, were found
Guilty; William M'Teague was, after a suitable ;admonition, sentenced to bo Exe-
cuted at Glasgow on Wednesday the 19th of May, and his daughter to be transport-
ed for 14 years.

James Stables, accused of issuing forged notes was next put to the bar, and who
pled Guilty, and was sentenced to 14 years' transportation.

J. Graham, J. Smith, J. M'Leod, and Quinten Kerr, from Paisley, housebreaking
and theft; Kerr was outlawed, the other two guilty, and to be transported for life.

John M'Dougall, alias Gow; housebreaking—guilty; 7 years transportation.

Campbell Roy and James Bell, for housebreaking and, theft, and habit and repute
thieves; Roy Guilty, and to be transported for life ; Bell was acquitted.

W. Weir, theft, round guilty; 6 months imprisonment.
J. Maxwell, theft, guilty, 12 months  imprisonment in Bridewell.
Janet Forsyth, accnsed of theft, was acquitted.

Alex. Paterson and Wm. Hill for housebreaking; the former to be transported 14
years and the latter outlawed.                                                                              

 W. Henderson and J. M'Gregor, accused of theft, were dismissed from the bar. 
John Samson, accused of culpable homicids, was acquitted.                                  

David Sharp, John Cameron or Anderson, J. and D. M'Creevie, for stouthrief,
theft and housebreaking at Springvale; the two tirst were outlawed; D. M'Creevie.
dismissed ; and John M'Creevie, Guilty, who, after a serious address, was sentenced
to be Executed at Glasgaw on the 19th May next; Margaret Bell, for reset of the 
same, sent back to prison.

William M'Q[  ] alias  Corley forgery pled Guilty; transportstion for life

 W.Carse,Painter GlasgowTRIALs

Concluded


GLASGOW SPRING CIRCUIT.

This day (April  26th) the Glasgow Circuit Court of
Justiciary   was opened   by   Lords    M'Kenzic   and
Medwyn, when after the  usual preliminaries were
gone through, the court oommenced with the trial
of
James M'Call, aggravated assault and previously convicted, remitted to
the sheriff.
Mary Poyd or M'Klusky. theft,   18 months Palsley bridewell.
Charles M'Murrich or M'Murrer and  Dennis Haggarson or Haggart
aggravated assault, outlawed.       
Cathaline Campbell, theft 2 years Glasgow bridewell.
William Downie, theft by housebreaking, habit and repute and previously
convicted,  7 years transportation
John Ferguson, aggravated assault,  9 months imprisoument in jail.
William M'Kay, rape or assault to ravish 7 years transportation.
Robert White bigamy. 9 months in jail.
Elizabeth Wardrop. the I, habit and repute, seven years transportation.
John Adam, theft, habit and repute, prev. con. 14 vears transportation.
Sally Donnechie theft, habit and repute, prev. con. 7 yrs. transportation.
John Miller, theft, habit and repute, 7 years' transportation.
John Roney, theft, previously convicted, 18 months bridewell.
James or George Campbell   falsehood, fraud and wilful imposition,and
previously convicted.,7 years' transportation.
Samuel Hastic, theft. habit and repute,  prev. conv. 7 yrs. transportation.
Donald M'Kay and William Hand,  theft by hausebreaking. habit and
repute, 7 years' transportation
William Wilson, aggravated assault, 12 months imprisonment.
Thomas M'Graw, theft, habit and repute, 7 years. transportation.
William M'Farlane, theft, habit and repute, previously convicted, 7 years
transportation.

WEDNESDAY.

John M Kinlay, stealing woollen yarn, &C. 7 years transportation.
John Livingstone, housebreaking and theft, pled guilty, 7 yrs trans.
John Miller, Robert Anderson, and William ! horotan, cnarged with
assault and robberv, pled guilty; the two former were sentenced to
transportation for life, and Thornton to 14 years.

Robert M'Inanlly was put the bar, charged with the murder of his own
father, by striking him a blow on the forehead with a poker, which caused
his death, on Sunday the 20th day of March last :  the prisoner pleaded
not guilty. and after a long and tedious trial, he was found guilty of
culpable homicide, and santenced to 9 months' imprisonment in bridewell.
George Downie, theft by housebreaking, opening lockfast places, 7 year
Henry Spruell, theft, habit and repute, 7 years' transportation.
Peter Fleming robbery or theft, and previously conv. 7 years' transpor
michael Murray, theft. prev. con. 18 months bridewell.
John M'Lennan, theft, outlawed.
Archibald Brownlee, theft by housebreaking, outlawed.

THURSDAY.
William Robertson, theft by housebreaking, pled guilty, 7 years trans.
Marion Hutchison or Campbell, theft, habft & rep. pled not guilty, 7 years
Daniel Graham, theft, pled guilty, 12 mouths imprisonmenton bridewell.
Lawrence M'Dermaid, culpable homicide, pled not guilty, A verdict of
guilty was returned, and sentenced to 12 months bridewell
Robert Kerr and Doneld M'Naught, robbery, the former pled not guilty
M.Naught was outlawed ; Kerr was sentenced to 14 years transportation
Joseph Crosswaitne, assault and robbery, transportation for life.
James Reid, theft and assault, habit and repute, pleaded guilty of assault
but not guilty of theft, was sentenced to 14 years transportation.
Mary Gillcapie and Joan Finlay, theft   7 years transportation.
This  concluded the business of the Western Circuit.

John Muir. Printer, Princcs Strect.TRIALS FOR RAPE, &C.

OF

D. DOBIE, J.THOMSON, AND D. BERTIE

BEFORE THE HIGH  COURT OF JUSTICIARY.—July 12 and 14.

A full-true, and particular account of the
Trial of, and Sentence upon, the great
Gilmerton Criminals, David Dobie and
John Thomson, for the Violation. Robbery,
and Murder of Margaret Paterson, in a way
so cruel, barbarous, and inhuman, as makes
the heart of the most obdurate melt with pi-
ty, and the very blood freeze with horror.
Together with the Indictment against the
Prisoners, the names and evidence of
the principal witnesses, and an inventory
of the articles produced on the Trial. con-
sisiting amongst other things, of the un
heard of and murderous implements by
which poor Margaret Paterson's destruction,
was. accomplished. And also the Speeches,
word for word, of Lord Meadow-bank and
the Lord Justice Clerk, and the behaviour
of the Murderers in the Lock up house, and
in the Condemned Cell.

And Likewise, a full. true., and particular
Account of the Trial of Mr Bertie, writer,
for- an alleged Kape on the Body of Mar-
garet Gray, a Girl of thirteen years of
age.

TRIAL OF DOBIE AND THOMSON.

The indictment of the Prisoners was read.
After the customary preamble, it went on as
follows:

That albeit, by-the laws of this and every
other well governed realm, Rape ; as also As-
sault, more especially when committed with
intent to Ravish; as also Murder; as also
Robbery ; are crimes of an heinous nature, and
severely punishable : yet true it is and of ve-
rity, that you the said John Thomson and
David Dobie are both and each, or one or
other of  you, guilty &c. in so far as,
the deceased Margaret Paterson, having,
on the 17th day of' April, 1830. met with
which. the said John Thomson and David
Dobie or one or other of you, within the house at
Cellar bank or Cellar Park, in the parish of Libberton
and shire aforesaid, &co. and you the said John Thomson 
and David Dobie, or one or other of you
having agreed to convey  the said decreased Margaret
Paterson to the said  village of Gilmertson; and the said
deceased Margaret Paterson having accordingly left the 
said house, and having proceeded in company with you,
or one or other of you, along the road leading from the 
said house to the village of Gilmerton aforesaid. &c.
you the said John' Thomson and David Dobie,
did, time aforesaid, & co., wickedly and feloriously
attack  and assault the said deceased Margaret
Paterson. and did both and each, or one or other of
you-[Here the indictment particularly specified the
first charge, viz., that of the prisoners having wickedly
and seriously violated the person of Margaret Pater-
son, which it would be improper more particularly to
publish. The indictment then went on to vary the
charge in the usual way, by charging an assault with
inteut to Ravish.]—LIKEAS, you the Said John
Thomsan  and  David Dobie did, both and each, or one
or other of you, time aforesaid, at or dear the part of
the  road, &c, &c. wickedly and feloniously attack and
assault the said deceased Margaret Paterson, and did
strike her several severe blows with your fists, and kick
her on the head and sides, and other parts of her body,
whereby she was, rendered insensible, and did—[Here
again the words of the indictment are unfit for-public-
cation. They describe particularly the soul harrowing
atrogities of the monsters, in forcing into the body of
Their already brutally maltreated and insensible victim,
three rough cornered pieces of stone  a number of
pieces of small coall a quantity of coal dust!  a quantity
 of hay! and the bone of the corsets of the de-
ceased!!! or some other instrument, to the Prosecutor
unknown! And having mentioned the dreadful laceva
tions-and wounds thus produced, the Indictment went 
on]  ,----Of the injurious so inflicted, or of one or  other of 
them, the said  deceased Margaret Paterson languishe if
till her death, which took place in the house in Amos
close aforesaid, then and now or lately occupied by the
said William Paterson, her father, on the 22d day of     
April, 1830; and the said deceased Margaret Paterson
was thus cruely murdered by you the said John Thom -     
son and David Dobie, or  by one or other of you :
LIKEAS, you the said John Thomson and Divid
Dobie did, both and each, or one or other of you, time
aforesaid, &c. &c. wickedly and feloniously rob the said
deceased Margaret Paterson, and did take from her by
force and violence, a gold ear ring, a small tin box, two
pawn tickets for gowns, one pledged for 3 . 6d , and the
other for 4s. the more particular description of the said
pawn tickets being to the prosecutor unknown, three
shillings and sixpence or thereby in silver money, a key,
a checked cotton or muslin handkerchief, a green shawl,
a coarse towel, some pieces of card or pasteboard and
some pieces of bread and meat, being all the property
or in the lawful possession of the said deceased  Mar-
garet Paterson:--



Inventory of Articles Produced in Court,

A green shawl, a woman's bonnet, a small
Sin box,, a gold ear-ring,  a  key, a handkerchief,
a coarse towel, three angular pieces, of, stone,
a small quantity of hay, a corset stick, a pair
of scissors, a woman's pocket.

When the prisoners were brought out of
jail to be conveyed over to the Lock up house,
Dobie recognized a person whom she  had
 known, and  said to him. 'This is an awfu'
condition for me to be brocht till.'—' It is,
Dobie.' was the reply, — to which he rejoined,
'Weel:—I'm as innocent as the child that's
unborn.' Thomson said nothing. Both the
men were rather meanly, but decently and
cleanly dressed ; and had the usual appear-
ance of carters in their Sunday clothes that
had already been well worn. Both are of slen-
der but athletic make —Thomson about 5 ft.
10 in. high.

The declarations emitted by the prisonars
were of great length, and chiefly consisted of
rambling, inconsistent, and unimportant state-
ments.

Colin Pentland and his wife were called to
prove the accidental meeting of the deceased
 and the prisoners at their house on the night
of the 17th of April, and their subsequent de-
parture together, with the carts for Gilmerton.

Walter Dingwall, residing at Gilmerton, was
called to prove that Thomson's horse had
brought his cart into the village of Gilmerton
without his master. This witness, and the
wife of one Bamberry, a slater in Gilmerton,
and others, found the shawl of the deceased,
her bundle of bread, &c. in Thomson's cart.

Alexander Denham and a young man named
Wright, and others, in consequence of Thom-
son being missing, set off  on the road to Edin-
burgh in search of him, On their return, they
were attracted by the groans of the deceased
to the spot where she was lying, near the
third milestone ; and finding her to be in a
very deplorable state, they carried her to the
house of Bamberry, into which she was hu-
manely received. In mean time, a person
had met Thomson coming into the village, and
had said to him, from the circumstance of the
shawl being found in the cart, ' You have had
a woman with you to-night.' To which he
replied, 'Yes, she's just behind me.

Drs Renton and Morrison, of Datkeith,
proved the frightful nature of the injuries in-
flicted on the deceased, —her extreme suffer-
ings,—her death in consequence of those in-
juries,—the appearances of the truly horrid
and shocking lacerations and wounds and the
consequent mortification, after death,—and
also the finding of the stones, &c. within the
body of the ill-fated woman,— The same Gen-
tlemen also, and other witnesses proved that
the deceased had declared, while in the pros-
pect of death, that both the prisoners had
committed the crimes to which she fell a victim

Several witnesses from Greenend and other
places proved that the prisoners had made
their treatment of the deceased a subject of
ribald jest and boasting to their companions.

The tin box, belonging to the deceased was
traced to the possession of Dobie ; and her
handkerchief was taken from Thomson's
pocket, when he was apprehended.

The Lord justice Clerk, in discharging the
Jury, stated that the verdict which they had
returned was perfectly consonant with the
opinions entertained by the Court. Sentence
was then moved, for.

Lord Meadowbank —My Lord justice
Clerk—It is little more than eighteen months
ago that the melancholy duty devolved on me
to propose sentence of death on & pannel con-
victed before you of a crime at that time con-
sidered almost unparalleled in atrocity. The
utmost stretch of our imagination then did not
lead us to anticipate the psosibility, that there
were living in the midst of civilized society men
who could be guilty of still greater atrocities
-—of more unparalleled brutality—revolting
to every feeling that actuates the mind of man.
I am perfectly certain that, were the details
of this case unfortunately made public, as,
thank God, the power of the law has enabled
you to prevent, those details would have ex
cited such feelings in this Christian communi-
ty as never were before excited. It is hardly
possible to imagine that persons would have
been found living in this Christian land who
could have brought their minds to the com-
mission of such atrocious crimes Melancholy
it is to think that, had this unprotected female
been wandering the world amongst the barbaro
barbarous people, she would have been in a
state of comparative safety to what she was
within three miles of the metropolis of this
most civilised country; such is the fact that



this poor Unhappy woman, after having fallen
into the hands of these abandoned men, was
treated in a manner which, of necessity, was
to produce death—she was robbed of the mis-
erable pittance which she had in her posses
sion ; and this was committed on a person on
whom they had the intention to satisfy other
brutal passions, This is the worst feature of
the case. I have not words to express the
feelings which the details of this day have
necessarily excited in my bosom. I have al 
luded to them generally, and shall only far-
ther allude to them by saving, that I think it
Was impossible for any human being, who
heard the evidence, to entertain a doubt of
the perfect propriety of the verdict which has
been returned. With these observations, I
have now simply to propose to your Lordship
to pronounce the sentence of the law, which
is that of death, and that it shall be carried
into effect on Wednesday the 18th of August
next.

The Lord Justice Clerk—John Thomson
and David  Dobie, you have heard the verdict
which has been recorded, and the opinions
which their lordships entertain in regard to
your case as exhibited in evidence against you ;
and following their example,— feeling that  no-
word which I can use are capable of describ
ing the unparalleled brurality, cruelty, and
wickedness, of the foul transaction which has
been disclosed this day. I shall not enter into
details farther than to remark that the exhi-
bition you have made is calculated to make
every man blush. Such wickedness and brutal
abomination could not have been believed to
have been committed, had it not been sworn
to in evidence. Following the principle of law,
by which the proceedings have been conduct-
ed with closed doors till this stage of the pro.
ceedings, I shall-refrain from saying any thing
f the crimes of which you stand convicted on
the clearest evidence ever produced before a
jury. But it is my duty to warn you to pre-
pare for the inevitable fate which awaits you
in this world ; and I warn you, in the most
earnest manner, to prepare to appear before
the judgment seat of the Almighty, to answer
for all the deeds done in the body. Rest as-
sured that if ever there was a case in which
the law will take it, full course it is yours. 
You are now to consider That your days on
earth, are numbered, and that you have now
no other duty in the world but to pray for
forgiveness of all your crimes--to humble
yourselves at the footstool of your Creator.
Do not  lose a single moment in setting about
heartfelt repentance—and God grant that it
may be sincere,—and  that forgiveness be ex-
tended to you for your crimes. His Lordship
then sentenced.  the pannels to be executed at
Edinburgh, on the 18th August and their
bodies given to Dr Monro. professor of ant-
tomy for dissection.

Dobie addressed the Lord Justice Clerk in
in these words, ' My Lord, I have one thing to
say, if you please. They cannot dissect the
soul."

On the way from the Court to   the   Lock
up house, both the prisoners   maintained the
same appearance as they had done throughout
the trial— that is to say,  there was a  restless   
recklessness in Dobie's movements and in the
expression of his countenance while Thomson
was   collected,   silent,    and   seemingly   quite   
passive in the hands of his conductors.   There
was; however,  an occasional quivering of his;,
person,an  a solemn thoughtful   expression    
on his pallid countenance,   which   indicated   
that he felt more than   he wished  should be   
observed by the spectators.                               
Until  the   evidence   had   been   all   gone    
through; Dobie induced a hope of being ae-   
quitted ; for he had adopted means for secur-   
ing, as he thought,  evidence   in  his   favour.

While be was in the jail, be  wrote a letter to   
one of,  his cousins, a female  residing in Gl-    
rnerton, instructing her to swear that she had    
seen Thonson give him the tin box belonging   
to Margaret  Paterson ; and this would  have    
accounted   for  one of  the strongest circums    
stances  against   him.     The  letter,  however,    
never reached the hands of the woman.  It was   
intercepial,   and given   to the .Sherial,   who    
sent for the female.  and  by an   interrogatory
ascertained  that this was an attempt to suborn   
a witness and consequently frustrated it.    It   
wag perhaps for the same reason that several    

persons from Gilmerton, who were in the list
of witnessed, were not called to give their
evidence for the Crown, as it was probable,
from their-intimacy with the prisoners, and
other circumstances, that Dobie might have-
been tampering with them also.

In the Lock-up house, Dobie said that:
some of the witnesses had sworn falsely ; but
this was chiefly in reference to the amount of
silver that the poor murdered woman had in her
in her possession.

At seven o'clock in the morning, the pri-
soners were placed in the usual carriage to
be conveyed back to the jail. After they had
taken their seats, a tear or two were observed
in the eyes of Thomson. Dobie wept plenti-
fully, and lamented for his wife and children-
(He had sent a sixpence to his wife while the
trial was going on, the day before, by one of
the witnesses )—Thomson soon assumed his
usual appearance of indifference He fre-
quently looked at the people through) the car-
riage, and remarked that it was ' a fine morn-
ing

When they got into the condemned cell,
Dobie said to Thomson, ' If the woman had been in my cairt,"jock, naething o' this wud
hae happened. The woman was a murdered
woman,—there's nae doot o' that ! But how
thae stans an hay an' things cam about,
(he added with an oath) I dinna ken.' Thom
son made. no answer to ail this, which must
be regarded as a confession by Dobie that he
was coocerned in the crimes, though not in
the worst.of them ; and Thomson's silence
was a still stronger though tacit admission of
the full Treasure of his own guilt.—-particularly
as neither 0f the prisoners made one single
complaint of the justice at their sentence.
Dobie spoke often of his wife and children,
for whom he lamented the disgrace he had
brought on them, and he expressed his hope
that his mother and his wife would be admit-
ted to see him- Thomson never once opened
his mouth., Dobie put an end to the scene.
by saying, ''Come, bring us thus elaes (mean-
ing the prison dress :) an' let's pit all thir
yins.' the behaviour of the men, since, has
been firms,.and becoming their situation.

The Gilmerton Carters. — Dobie and Thom-
son are now confined in the same cell; and are
attended by che Rev. Dr Lee. Since their
condemnatory they have been, very quiet. not
a word of rejection has proceeded trom one
aginst the other. They are both compara-
tively illiterate and ignorant. Dobie can read
and write, and Thomson is able to read, but
it would appear they have derived little or no
advantage from these acquirements.

The awful nature of his situation, from the
first, made a deep impression on Thomson's
mind. Since he uas indicted he has been very

dull ; and has  become spare In his person.--

His coedemnation has had a still greater effect
on his spirits, as he appears at times quite ab-
stracted and lost in meditation, while at other
time; he is restless and uneasy.—Observer.

TRIAL OF   D. BERTIE.

The Indictment, after commencing in the
usual term, set forth That alb.it, by the laws
of this and every other well governed realm,
Rape is a crime of an heinous nature and
severely punishable: yet, true it was and of
verify that, that David Bertse, the prisoner at the
bar. was guilty of the same, he having, on the
1 th day of May last, in a house situated in East Cumberland-strtet, then in the occup-
tion of Mrs. Jane Skirving, and  in a room in
the said house, which he (the prisoner) occu-
pied as a lodger, wickedly solicited Margaret
Gray, servant to the said Jane Skirving. and
on her rejecting his solicitations, did attack
her with force and violence in the said room,
-—and that on the said Margaret Gray getting
away from him, he did some time afterwards
in the passage of the said house, again attack
he said Margaret Gray, and did seize her by
the arm and forcibly drag her back into his
room. wherein, in spite of all the resistance in
her power, he consummated the crime, with
great force and violence—[and the particulars
of which, as stated in the indictment, are unit
for publication.]

The indictment then went on to state, that
he pannel, having been apprehended, and
taken before the Sheriff substitute, had emit-
ed before him. on the 11th and 13th of May

two several declaration which being to be
used in evidence against him, had been lodged
in the usual place for his inspection, as also a
medical certificate singed by Dr Thatcher.
and another medical certificate  signed by Dr
Black surgen to the  Police Establishment,
and by Mr A. L. Black and Mr sidey, sur-
geons, —and also one other article, which,
though it was named in the indictment and
produced on the trial, it would be in proper
to mention here.

The trial commenced about twelve o'clock ;
and the prisoner having  been  placed at the
bar. pleaded Not Guilty.

The Examination of Margaret Gray (who is
not more than fourteen years of age, and who
is a doughter o' very decent parents at loppa.
where her father is a mason) occupied two
hours and a quarter. She underwent a lone
and very minute cross examination ; but she
was not materially shaken in her principal
evidence.

There were twenty witnesses in all. for the
Crown, amongest whom were, Margaret Gray,
Mrs Skirvin., Catherine Johnston. Ann Gray.
the Medical Gentelmen mentioned in the
indictment, Lieutenant Harvey, and Serjean
Charles Sicwart. jun ; of the Police Establish-
ment.

The alleged facts of the case were that on
the day the libelled, the Pri-soner and Margaret
Gray being alone. in Mrs Skirving's house. 
the absence  of Mrs S., and the rest of the fa-
mily, the prisoner offered the poor girl first 
one pound note, then two pound notes and
then there pound   notes, if she would comply
with his wishes. These temptations having
been rejected by the girl, the pannel, as al-
leged, next proceeded to use violence in the 
way libelled is the indictment After the com-
mission of the crime, he had left the house.
but he returned to it  again, and was in bad
when he was apprehended, about eleven,
o'clock on the same night, He has all along
positively denied the crimes,

The prisoner is a young man about twenty
eight years of age, dark complexion, roman
nose, short stature, and of gentlemanly dress,
and appearance. He was Clerk to a Writer
in Edinburgh. He came from Brechin.

The  exculpatory evidence occupied a very
considera be portion of time, and there were
several very respectable witness to the cha-
racter of the pannel.

The Lord Justice Clerk having made a long
and able summing up of the evidence, the
jury retired to consider of their verdict.

During the absence of the jury, the pannel
remained in a state of the utmost agitation
and anxiety. He repeatedly gazed round
him with an indescribably haggard  expression
on his countenance, over which hung a cloud
of the blackest gloom and most dismal melan-
choly. At times he laid his head down on
his hands and arms; and for a few moments
seemed asleep; and then  he would raise his 
head again with the same unaltered expres-
sion. It struck almost every person in Court,
that his apparance now was like that of a
maniac, or rather of a drunk man, arousing
from Sleep and trying to collect  his dissipared
ideas.

After an absence of about twenty minutes,
the jury returned at eleven o'clock at night
and pronounced by, their Chancellor the fol-
lowing verdict:- My Lords: Owing to the
contrad ctory statement of the evidence, we
find the charge Not Proven.'

On bearing these joyful words, the prisoner
sprung to his feet clapped his hands uttered
an exclamation of gratitude to the jury and 
(all in an instant) appeared as if he wished
to seize his hat, and bound at once out of 
the Court.                                

Persons who shook the prisoner by the hand
state that it felt like the clammy band of a 
person newly dead, or dying.

Mary Taylor or Leslie, and George Leslie,
were accused of stealing a watch. Mary Tay-
lor guilty of the theft, and George Leslie
guilty of reset. 

The female prisoner was sentenced to seven
years transportation, and the man to eighteen
months confinement in Bridewell.

Forbes and owen, Printers—[Price One Penny.]An account of the Trial of JOHN ARMSTRONG, in the High Court of Justiciary, for Shop
breaking and Theft,.who is to be executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 17th day of
January, 1810.

MONDAY, 11th December, 1809, came on,
in the High Court of Justiciary, Edinburgh,
the trial of John Armstrong, acculed of breaking
into the shop of Mr. William Robertson, merchant
in Dalkcith, on the evening of the 31st October last,
and stealing therefrom the following articles:—Two
pieces of superfinc black cloth, two pieces of super-
fine blue ditto, two pieces West of England ditto,
two pieces black filk florentine, one imitation shawl,
ten pieces thread edging, ten pieces French cambric,
not entire; five pieces ditto, uncut; nine new silver
watches, and one old ditto.

The prisoner pleaded Not Guilty;'and some ob-
jections stated against the relevancy having been
overruled by the Court; the following evidence on
the part of the public prosecutor was adduced.

Christian Robertson, wife of William Robertson,
merchant in  Dalkeith; deponed, That on the night
the robbery was committed, she, along with Mr.
Robertson's apprentice, carefully shut up the shop,
about half part eight o'clock, by looking the doors,
and that the locks were tried after this took place;
that the carried the keys to their dwelling house,
which is immediately above the shop, and deposited
them in her own drawer, which she also locked up;
and about eleven o'clock, when her husband pro.
posed to go down to the shop to put in the watch-
dog, which was his asual practice, she gave him
the keys. On his going down to the shop, he called
out to the deponent that the doors were open, and
asked her if the shop had been previously locked?
to which the answered, that it had. Upon which
Mr. Robertson said, that a robbery had surely been
committed, an both the doors by which there was
access from the back part to the shop, were open.
The witness went down, and saw several parcels
which had been taken from the shelves lying upon
the counter, opened up. 

Mr. Robertson, the next witness called, deponed
That when he went down to put his watch dog into
the shop, he found both the doors open by which it
is entered behind; he asked Mrs. Robertson if the
doors had been locked, to which she answered that
they had On examining the shop, he found the ar-
ticles missing which are mentioned in the indictment.
Immediately on this discovery Mr. Robertson awoke
his apprentice, who had gone to bed, and then they
went to the Sheriff-officer in Dalkei'h, to whom the
occurrence was communicate, who accompanied
the deponent in visiting almost the whole public
houses in Dalkeith, but without making any disco-
very. On being shown four watches in Court,
which were covered with leather bags, Mr. Robert-
son swore distinctly to their being his property, its
the bigs not only coutained his private marks, but
the names written upon them corresponded with the
names of the makers of the watches. He also iden
tified a piece of Yorkshire blue cloth, upon which
was his private mark; three pieces of lace, on the
cards of which was the same mark, and as to the
lace, he swore that it was of the same quality as 
that stolen from his shop; one piece of florentin
one piece of silk, and three pieces of cut cloth, he
deponed were of the same pattern, texture, and
quality as those of which he had been robbed. the
value of the whole goods carried off he stated to be
L.200 at least; and added, that he never sold a
watch with a bag upon it; the bags, with marks upon
them, being put merely for the use of his apprentice.
John Colcleugh, apprentice to Mr. Robertson.
corroborated the testimony of Mrs. Robertson, and
also swore to the watches being his masters pro-
perty, as he, the witness, had put his private mark
upon them before they were stolen from the shop;
he also identified the other articles sword to by Mr.
Robertson.

William Mackintosh, clerk to James Smith, W S.
found a piece of cloth on the road between Dal-
keith and Edinburgh, on the evening of the rob-
bery; previous to finding which he passed two men
on the road going towards Edinburgh, with bundles
on their backs. This piece of cloth he gave in to
the Sheriff Clerk's Office, and Identified it in Court.
Janet Patison, late servant to Mrs. Fergusson,
Crosscauseway, deponed, that the prisoner came to
live in her mistress's house about a fortnight before
he was apprehended for the robbery. He called
himself Smith, and was accompanied by a woman.
whom the witness  understood was his wife as she
was named Mrs Smith, as also by a man of the
name of Brown These persons occupied the upper
or garret rooms of the house; and on the night of
the robbery the prisoner was not in his lodgings at
ten o'clock; but next morning, at seven o'clock the
prisoner knocked at the door, and was let in by wit-
ness. He appeared extremely haggard, his shoes
and stockings were covered with dust. and it seem-
ed to the deponent as if he had been out all night.

James Wilson, Sheriff Clerk of Edinburgh.de-
 poned, that he was directed by the Sheriff to search
 for the priloner. On going to the house of one
Milns, a   spirit-dealer  in  infirmary-street, alongit
with Mr. Alex. Callander, Town Clerk of this city,
and other officers, they observed the prisoner and
 woman, that he called his wife, coming out of said
 house. Upon which Archibald Campbell, Town
    Officer seized Armstrong, who immediately dropt
    a silver watch which Mr. Campbell picked up; and
    on a number of people gathering together, the pri-
    soner and his wife were  taken into Miln's house;
   where, on searching him, two watches were found
   upon him, between  51.  and 61. of money, and a
    knife.    Two cards of lace, and a piece of silk were
   also found on or under a bench on which the priso-
   ner's wife fat in Miln's house.   Armstrong was then
    sent to prison, and the witnefs, with others. pro-
    ceeded to his lodgings in the Crosscauseway, where
    they found a piece of superfine cloth, and a silk vest
    piece lying outside of the window, and also  nother
    piece of cloth in a closet.    Several other witnesses
    were examined, whose depositions clearly corrobo-
     rared what has been already stated; and no evidence
    being adduced on the part of the prisener, Lord
   Justice Clerk fummed up the whole in his usual
   distinct and candid manner.  The Jury then retired
   for about half.an hour, when they returned a ver-
   dict, all in one voice finding the prisoner GUILTY.
   He was in consequence sentenced to be executed at
   Edinburgh on the 17th day of January next.

                     Printed by Thos. Duncan.A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT TENNANT,
who is to be Executed at Stirling, on Wednesday morning, the 2d of October
next, and his body buried within the prcincts of the Jail there, for the Horrid
Murder of William Peddie, labourer, by felling him on the head with a Ham-
mer, on the evening of the 3d of August, 1833, while breaking stones on the
road, in the parish of Falkirk.

At Stirling, on Thursday the 12th September, 1833, came on, before the Circuit
Court of Justiciary, the trial of Robert Tennant, for the murder of William
Peddie, labourer at Airth, on the 3d of August last, a little to the north of Bean-
cross, in the parish of Falkirk. The indictment stated, that the prisoner did,
wickedly and feloniously, attack and assault the deceased with a stone hammer,
or some other instrument, and inflict on his head two severe blows, whereby he
was mortally wounded, and immediately expired, and was thus murdered by
the prisoner; to which he pled Not Guilty.

Henry Reid and Mr Brock passed northwards from Beancross on 3d August,
about 5 P.M.    Saw a man lying on the ground, and two wounds on the back
part of his head.    The ground was damp with blood—the man was quite dead,
but not stiff    Reid gave notice to Mr Borthwick, junior.    D. Sharp knows
pannel—saw him at Kerse Toll on 3d August, about 3 P.M.    Went into the
toll with him.    They left the house together, and pannel went into witness's
cart.    They went south to Beancross, and pannel came out of the cart at a path
before they arrived at that place, and stood, seemingly speaking to Mr Gird-
wood, who was going up that path.    Saw the prisoner that day before about
12, at the place where he was breaking stones, and his hammer was lying be-
side the heap of stones.    T. Girdwood saw prisoner the day that Peddie's body
was found, about 4 o'clock, on the road a little below Beancross.    He asked if
witness had seen deceased, who said he had, having passed him when going
north, and between 200 and 300 yards from where he met the prisoner.    Wit-
ness asked if the pannel himself had not seen him, and he said he had come up
behind him all the way from the toll.    Left pannel there, and returned in about
ten minutes, and found pannel still standing there.    Witness then went south
towards Beancross, and again met Peddie coming north.    Saw nothing more of
them that night.    Saw the place where the body was afterwards found, and it
was the very spot where witness had left the pannel.    John Henry knows the
pannel—saw him on the road between Kerse toll and Beancross, on 3d August
between 3 and 4 o'clock, leaning to a hedge, and his hammers before him. Saw
the deceased after he left pannel, coming north towards where he had left pan-
nel.    Saw the deceased's body that night, near the place where he had left pan-
del.    John Fleming saw pannel, on 3d August, sitting at the hedge at the side
of the road that passes Beancross, and he gave witness a cry.    Did not see de-
ceased, though he might have passed him.    John Coubrough heard of Peddie's
body being found, and went to the spot about 6, before it was removed.    Wit-
ness then made a search in a field of beans adjoining, and about 60 paces to-
wards the north, found the pannel lying among the beans, apparently asleep,
as witness spoke repeatedly before he answered.    He denied having seen de-
ceased that day.    George Shaw was collecting dung on the road, and saw pan-
nel, who spoke to witness.    On his return from the north, saw pannel and de-
ceased talking together, and heard the name Borthwick mentioned—this  was
between 4 and 5 P.M.    Went to his house, and again returned to  take home
the dung.    He then saw Peddie lying lifeless at the very spot where he had seen
him and pannel.    He was not absent more than ten minutes.    Saw a wound
about the head.    Did not see pannel, but he almost immediately came out of a
field of beans, and asked witness to conceal what he had seen.    Witness said he
would not, though he were his father.    Prisoner said if witness concealed it,
and he denied it, they could not prove it against him.    Mr Borthwick superin-
tends the road between Kerse toll and Beancross.    Saw Peddie at work on 3d
August last, and instructed him to dismiss pannel from the work, because that,
although the deceased had before prevailed on witness to keep him on the road.
it was evident that his drinking and irregularity rendered him unfit to be longer
employed     The deceased was foreman on the road, and about 70 years of age.

Dr Graham here read a report describing the wounds, which he and Dr Main
had drawn up at the time.    Two hammers were discovered when the body was
found, one of which witness now identified in court, and the grey hair still adher-
ing to it.    Dr Main concurred in this evidence.    The prisoners declarations
were then read.    He stated he was about 24 years of age, and admitted he was
at Grangemouth fair. and that after getting some drink at the toll, he had gone
into the field of beans and fallen asleep, out of which he had been roused by
John Coubrough.    Denied that he had, on the day in question, spoken to the
deceased, or been in any way connected with the murder; and also denied that
he asked George Shaw to conceal any thing regarding him.

Two witnesses were then examined in exculpation, who merely stated, they
never saw any thing quarrelsome in his conduct, and considered him an inoffen-
sive man. This closed the evidence, when Mr Shaw Stewart addressed the Jury
in support of the prosecution, and was followed by Mr Crawford for the pan-
nel, who made an eloquent and ably argumentative defence. Lord Gillies sum-
med up the. evidence, and the Jury then retired. In half an hour, they returned
into Court with their verdict, unanimously finding the prisoner Guilty, but re-
commending him to mercy, on account of his previous good character, and that
up to the time of meeting, when the murder was committed, it did not appear that he had formed
any premeditated plan of commiting the same. After which, Lord Gillies proceeded to pronounce
sentence, and having concluded an earnest and feeling address to the prisoner, in the course of which
his Lordship stated, that he saw no reasonable hope of the recommendation of the Jury effecting any
alteration of the judgment to be awarded. He sentenced " the unhappy man to be carried back to
the tolbooth of Stirling, and to be there maintained on bread and water, till Wednesday the 2d day
of October next, and on that day, between the hours of 8 and 10 in the morning, to be taken to the
place of execution at Stirling, and there be hanged on a gibbet till he be dead, and that his body be
afterwards interred within the precincts of Stirling jail." The prisoner exhibited little or no emotion
when judgment was pronounced, but displayed that appearance of sullenness which he had manifest-[?].

Menzies, Printer, Edinburgh.

CIRCUIT.

A List of the TRIALS and SENTENCES of the various Prison-
ers who have appeared before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which
opened at Glasgow on Monday the 21st Sep. 1829.

This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the Right Hon, the Lords
Justice Clerk aud Moncreiff, when after a suitable Prayer by the Rev. Mr. Dewar, the follo w-
ing cases came before the court.

Hugh Glacken or Glachan. theft, pled guilty, 7 year, transportation.-
Archibald M'Phail, alias Campbell,  alia ;  M' Donald, housebreaking, pled guity, Sentenced
to 14 years transportation.

Arthur Hallons, or Highlands, theft, was found guilty, 14 years transportation.
David M'Learie, junior , pled guilty , sentenced to 7 years transportation,
Ann Sparrow for administering vitrol under the act 6th Geo. IV., chap. she was found
guilty, and Sentenced to be kept in prison, during all the period of her natural life. 

William Harkins and   Henry Donachie, assult, Harkins pleaded guilty and Donachie was
outlawed for not appearing, Harkins was sentenced to 14 years transportation.
Jean Brisbane or Ruthersford, theft, she pleaded guilty, 7 years transportation.
Philip M'Guire, John Bain, Janet Turnbull and Margeret Gordon, the pannelspleaded
guilty, and were sentenced to  12 months in Bridewell. 
James  Cochrane and Rose Dougherty, they  found guilty, 7 years transportation each.

Tuesday the Court met at 9 o'clock.

Elizabeth Haggarty or Greig, theft, pled gulilty, 6months in Bridewell.
Daniel Kelly, falsehood, fraud, &c. pled guilty, sentenced to 7years transportation.
Neil Kean or Cane, assult, pled guilty, Sentenced to 6 months imprisonment, 
William   Miller,  forgery,  plended  guilty,   Snntenced   to 14  years   transporatation..                                                                                                                        
John Devin and Francis Polin, weavers, and Sarah M'Kechnie or Devin, housebreaking was                
found guilty , Polin and Devin , for 14 years and M'Kechnie, 7 years transportation .                                       
John Craige, glazier, James Brown, labourer , and Robert stewart, weaver, Johnstone , were                       
charged with Stouthrief, and  housebreaking , they were found guilty, and after a suitable ad-                       
dress by the Lord Justice Clerk, when Craig and Brown were sentenced to be executed in   
Paisley, between the hours of 12 and  4 on Thursdak the 29td day of October next. 
Robert Storie, (formerly a  Soldier, theft,) pled guilty , 7 years transportation.  

                                                                            Carmichael & Graham, Printers.TRIAL
OF THE   REV.   MR TAIT,

MINISTER of the COLLEGE CHURCH.

Just Published, an Account of the Trial of the Rev.
MR TAIT, Minister of the College Church, before
the Presbytery of Edinburgh, which met this day
in  the Trustee's Hall, head of Scott's Close.

FURTHER MANIFESTATIONS OF THE SPIRIT.

AS THE recent procedings as the Meetings of Presbytery, it
might have been supposed that the religious extravagances which
have of late been too frequently exhibited in  the College Church,
would have ceased.  But so far from this being the case,  they were
yesterday repeated With all their usual fervour, and in a strain of
fanatical excitement, as inconsistent with d[?] smay, as with the spirit
of true piety. Surely no  one could have possibly believed, that in
an age which boasts of being peculiarly enlightened, men of educa-
tion and character should be so far influenced by the power of de-
lusion, as to imagine that by uttering frantic outcries, and com-
mitting other extravagancies in a place of worship, they should give
any other manifestation than of their own folly.

It is lamentable to see so respectable men acting on
such misguided fancies; and under the vain idea of an
imaginary inspiration chusing a place of worship for the
scene of their fanatical excesses.  Immediate steps should
be taken to put an end to these absurd and [?]ing
exhibitions, by which all sober persons are deeply scan- 
dalized. We understand that, both yesterday and the
Sunday preceding, in  the interval between the forenoon
and afternoon services, during a Prayer Meeting, Mr
Carlyle, Advocate, screamed and uttered incoherent sen-
tences in a state of great excitement. Several women
who were present, were so alarmed that they ran out of
the church, and one or two fainted when they came to
the street,

TRIAL  OF  THE REV.  Mr  TAlT.

This day, 31st  July— The Presbytery met  in the Trustee's Hall,
at 12 o'clock, The meeting Was constituted by prayer, and the
chair  taken by the Rev. David Thourburn of South Leith, in ab-
sence of the Moderator, After the ordinary rotine of business was
gone through, a minute was read, signifying  that the report  of  the
Committee (Drs Inglis and Gordon), had been shewn to  Mr Tait,
the contents  of which approved of, excepting that clause which says
 that Mr Carlyle  had spoke during, his (Mr Tait's) discourse, for
successive Sabbaths ; admitting, at the same time, the. Mr Carlyle
had spoke to strengthen him in behalf of  his flock.

Dr. Lee proposed that as Mr Tait was in an adjoining room, he
should be called in by the Moderator, intimation given him
that the business regarding him was going to commence. The
Rev. Mr Tait then made his appearance, when he was informed
by the Moderator that several questions would require to be put
to him. Dr lnglis praposed that as, a report was prevalent that re-
newed disturbances had taken place  in the College Church, an en-
quiry should be invested in a Committee. Dr Lee made a motion,
that as  the Rev. Gentleman was present, questions should be put to
him as to the truth of these assertions. This, was agreed on, and
Mr Tait gave answers that did not satisfy the motion.

A discussion then took place, in which Drs  Inglis, Brunton, Lee,
Brown, M'Knight, Gordon,and Mr Simpson joined. It was finally
agreed on, that ths Presbytery should meet on friday at 12 o' clock,
to consider upon serving Mr  TAIT with a liblel and suspension.         

A. M'MILLAN, PRINTER, LAWNMARKET, EDINBURGH.Awful Crime!



A full and particular account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of JAMES NEWLANDS, who is to be executed
at Inverness, on Saturday the 25th May, 1833, for
the Horrible crime of Rape on a young girl, only
17 years of age.

At Inverness, on Thursday the 2d May 1833, James Newlands,
from Speymouth, Morayshire, was put to the bar, charged with
having voilated the person of a young woman named Jane Ross,,
servant to John Inglis, farmeo at Westerton. The prisoner pleaded
not guilty. This case was, as usual, tried with closed doors. The
unfortunate woman is only 17 years of age. It appears the prisoner
had in company with Jane Ross, and several other young persons,
been returning from Elgin Feeing Market; they stopt at a public
house at Lanbride, and had a glass or two of spirits. Newlands
(who is about 39 years of age, and unmarried) then advised Jane
Ross to walk on before with him, and take a different road from
the rest of the party, stating that they would speedily rejoin them
at a place where the two roads met. He had no intention of re-
joining the company, but violated the person of the poor girl, and
brutally attacked her three different times. On reaching her mas-
ter's house, she informed her mistrces of the ill treatment she had
experienced, and next morning she acquainted her relations with
the fact. The case was fully established by the evidence of the
young woman and other witnesses. It engaged the Court from
about three o'clock to half-past two on the Sabbath morning. The
jury returned a verdict of guilty of ths crime libelled, but from the
previous good character of the prisoner, unanimously recommend-
ed him to mercy.

Monday, April 29th.— At nine o'clock this morning the Court as-
sembled. Jemes Newlands was placed at the bar, and Lord Med-
wyn addressed his brother judge, Lord Moncrieff, at some length, on
the henious nature of the crime of which the jury had fouud the
pannel guilty, after a painful and patient investigation, He- felt it
to be his duty to propose, in the aggravated circumstances of the
case, nothing less than the punishment of death. His lordship there-
fore proposed that the prisoner at the bar be executed on the 25th
of May.

Lord Moncrieff put on the black coif, and the prisoner having
stood up, proceeded in a most impressive manner to deliver the
sentence proposed by Lord Medwyn. His Lordship referred to
some of the leading circumstances of the case, exhibiting the malig-
nity of his intentions, and the cruelty of his purposes. From your
years and other circumstances, you was calculated to be the pro-
tector rather than the destroyer of the young woman, whom you
have so deeply and irreparably injured. After she had cast herself
upon your confidence and protection you have planted in her heart
a wound which she herself has declared was more painful to her
than death itself. When our Creator presented to man in his lone-
ly and unfallen state, woman, to be a comfort and a blessing, he
did not give her for the gratification of passions, degrading in them-
selves, or like that of the brutes that perish, but for the perpetuation
and preservation of our own species. The God of Nature has im-
planted in the constitution of women, principles and feelings which
are calculated to exalt and improve our condition, and has given to
our sex, affections and privileges, which woman, in her proper place,
can well esteem and repay. But for you, unfortnnat man, you have
violated the laws of God and nature, and with a determination and
resklessness degrading to our sex, for the gratification of your sel-
fish passions, turned a blessing into a bitter curse. Your days are
now numbered, and it becomes you to apply to that fountain of
mercy, which is able to make you acceptable to God ; and one of
the first visible evidences of your repentance will be, to banish from
your mind all feelings of resentment towards that young woman,
whose happiness you have destroyed, and by every means which
the law permits, and you have in your power, to endeavour to re-
store to her, that character which, in the course of your defence,
you have attempted to deprive her of, by throwing out insinuations
as to her purity. I would not advise you, said his Lordship, em-
phatically, to build much hope on the recommendation to mercy,
to which I have referred, but would recommend you to prepare
your mind to meet that God before whom you must so speedily ap-
pear. May the God of peace, that brought again from the dead
that everlasting covenant, grant you the salvation of which you stand
so much in need. His Lordship then read the sentence of the Court.

The prisoner seemed little affected during the delivery of this sol-
emn adress, and at the conclusion, when about to be removed, turned
round as if he had forgot something, and exclaimed in a moderately
firm voice—" I declare before God and man, and this Court, that I
am innocent."                                                         

EDINBURGH:—Printed for Francis M'Cartney ..   BROOMIELAW
BRIDGE.

The Last Speech, and Sorrowful Lamentation of the Broomielaw B idge,
on being sentenced to be pulled down. Also its farewell Address  to
the Old Bridge, &c.

MY FRIEN'S,—My hours are number'd now,
An' I must bid ye a!l adieu.—
'Bout sixty years or little mair,
I've faithfu' ser'd ye late an' ear':
My time's been short—-but weel I've worn,
For mony a heavy load I've borne ;
Baith rich an' puir fo'ks, auld an' young.
Upo' me pleasant pass'd airing ;
Sheep, kye, an' how, coaches an' carts,
Pass'd safe alang frae a'  the airts ;
An' note,—while ye my hist'ry trace,
I've been a blessing to the place :
But now, my services maun close;
I must submit my fate to foes.

Alake! 'tis neither joke, nor leeiu',
That I must cease to ha'e a bein';
Though without blemish, want or flaw,
I'm doom'd to ruin, even by law !
Frae acciaent I'm free o' harm ;
I'm sturdy, straught, upright, an' firm ;
Look roun" me—neither rive, nor lack ;
Nor yet defac'd   by chink, or crack :
For strength, an' beauty, sure was never
A better Brig strode o'er a river:
Without a fault, by all contest,
O' Brigs, the bonniest, an' the best 
Yet strange—'tis now the awfu' crisis,
I'm doom'd to be all torn to pieces :
The like was never done before,
In modern times, nor days o' yore:
A sentence—shamefully unjust:
What guilt in men o' public trust :
T' annihilate me for evermore—
For whims, an' schemes, they'll yet deplore.
My value, (what prodigious waste,)
Is, thirty thousan' pounds, at least.

Then, ye my judges, think an' ponder
Repent, o' this most glarin' blunder;
Think on my fate---sair may it grieve
I canna—winna now forgive ye:
 My ghaist, I promise sair will vex ye-
My trien's in Glasgow will perplex ye.
Haloo ! auld Gorby,** my dear brither,
We've ay 'greed weel wr' ane anither
Firm as twa rocks we've stable stood,
An' ha'e resisted mony a flood ;—
Ye've learn'd my case—O is na't hard
Fashon'd like you, I might been spar'd
I ever thought ye'd first been humbled
By speat, or Council whimsey—tumbl[  ]-
I'm young, an' stout—ye're auld an' h[  ]y:
Cou'd I think, I'd be gone before ye:
I hop'd, (respeckfu' I acquaint ye,)
T' exist some hun'er years ahint ye ;
This hope—'twas natural to cherish;
But ye are spar'd— an' I must perish!
Oh now! I'll meet my final doom.
My Executioners are come!         
Wi' warrant, frae the Council Chamber
Furnish'd wi' mattocks, picks, an' hammers,
An' instruments o' fit construction,
To cut me peacemeal to destruction.
Lang be spar'd—we now must sever,
Fareweel, fareweel—an' that for ever.
Ho! thou vam Maggy Monyfeet,
As my successor—e'en sae be't;
May the first flood set thee a movin',
An' sen' thee soomm down by Govan.
The Lamas flood—ere twa month's gan
Will finish thee I trust--Amen.

** The  Auld Brig.
* The New Wooden Brig.

           John  Muir, Printer.TRIALS
And Sentences.

An account of the Trials and Sen-
tences of 37 persons before the
Circuit Court at Glasgow, five of
whom, Edward M'Gaffer,Francis
Cain. Geo. Laidlaw, D. Wylie,
and Wm. Johnston, are to be
Executed on the 29th October,
and'12th November, 1823.

Glasgow, September 22, 1823.—This day the Circuit
Court of Justiciary was opened by the Lords Justice Clerk
and Hermand, and after the usual ceremonies had been
gone over, the following persons were put on trial:

Edward M'Caffer, Peter M'Queen, & Francis Cain, accused
of assaulting and robbing James Maxwell, coppersmith, of a
gold watch with a gold chain and two gold seals, a purse con-
taining eight pound notes, some silver, and his hat, on the
9th of July last, pleaded No Guilty. The prisoners were
found Guilty, and M'Gaffer and Cain were sentenced to be
Executed at Glasgow on the 29th of October next, but re-
commended to mercy. The libel was restricsed as to
M'Queen, and he was sentenced to be transported for life.

George Laidlaw and George Spittal or Spittel, charged
with breaking into the chop of Moss Solomon and Moss
Hadkin, jewellers, Nelson Street, Glasgow, on the 30th of
March last, by means of false keys, and carrying off' ten gold
watches, about fifty silver watches, about two hundred gold
seals, six dozen gold keys, about sixty gold rings, forty pairs
of gold ear-rings, one gold neck-chain, ang a great variety of
other jewellery articles, to the value of L.600 The prison-
ers were found guilty, Laidlaw was sentenced to be Execut-
ed at Glasgow, on the 29th of October next, and Spittal
having pled Guilty, was sentenced to he transported for life.

David Wylie and William Johnston, for breaking into the
house of James Herbert Rodgers, Esq. Gordon-street, and
stealing a great variety of wearing appnrel, and other articles
to the value of about L.200 Sterling ; and D. Dunsmore,
Ann Hunter or Dunsmore, John Toy, and James Ferguson,
with resetting the articles stolen. Wylie and Johnston were
found guilty of the robhery, and sentenced to be Hanged on
the 12th of November next. Dunsmore and wife 14 years
transportation. Toy 18 months hard labour in Bridewell,
and Ferguson outlawed.

W. White, .J. Paisley, Margaret Paisley, Letitia Philips,
and Mara Sinclair, theft; Paisley and his wife, 14 years
transportation;. and the rest 18 months in bridewell.

W. Boyd, H. Wilson,   and   H.   Marshall,   theft,   and  J

Buchanan, and Janet .Gardner, for reset; the !he two former

14, and the two latter 7 years transportation, Wilson dismised,

P. Sinclair, A. Brown, and K.   Young,   robbery,   Sinclair

transportation for life, and the rest dismissed.

To be Transported for 14 years.-J. Reilly, for housebreak-
ing and theft in Lochwinnoch ; John Shaw, flesher, front
Greenock, for violently abusing his wife; James Redpath
plane-maker culpable homicide ; A. M'Kay. P. M'Conichie
J. Robertson, Wm. Walker, and A. Nicholson, tenters, for
pouring oil of vitriol on Wm.. Kyle ; J. Low, J. M'Dora .d,
and J. M'Manus, theft; Wm. Montgomery, theft in Green-
ock.                                            

Mary Horn, for the murder of Janet M'Laren a deaf and

dumb woman, by striking her on the head with a large ham-
mer, in a fit of jealousy, on the 2d of August last, was found
guilty, but not with a malicious intent. To be sent to Edin-
burgh to receive sentence.

William M'Garvie, from Paisley, assault; sentenced,to be
whipped through Paisley on the 9th of October next, and
thereafter to be transported for fourteen years.