This report begins: 'Full, True and Correct Account of the Explosion of the Power Magazine, at Gibraltar, on the 27th of December last, when Eleven Soldiers belonging to the Garrison were blown up 300 feet in the air, with an account of their dreadful and horrid Death, most of them being shattered to pieces, also an account of the number of men bruised and wounded.' The date stated on the sheet is the 27th of December, and a hand-written entry inserted after the printed text identifies the year as 1830. The sheet was published by John Campbell of Edinburgh.
This broadside news account tells of a tragedy involving an explosion at an army camp in the British colony of Gibraltar, which killed 11 soldiers. Most of the story comes from a letter of explanation written by a corporal of the 42nd regiment (known as the Royal Highland Regiment or the Black Watch) to James Bryce in Lanark, father of William, who was one of the deceased soldiers. The corporal's letter is extremely graphic in its description of this dreadful accident, which occurred during gunnery practice.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A New-Years-Gift : OR, A RESPECTFUL WISH From the Hand of a Stranger who (upon the 28th of November) was a Sufferer by the Fire which happened in the Canongate. TO MY LORD BALMERINO'.
This eighteenth-century broadside, written in verse, offers good wishes for the coming year, one presumes it is intended to be bought as a gift for friends. It is not clear why we are told that the author was in a fire in Edinburgh's Canongate. Neither is it clear why the verse is dedicated to 'Lord Balmerino'. It is likely that this is Arthur Elphinstone (1688-1746), a Scottish nobleman and army commander, who was executed for his part in the 1745 rebellion.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'Dark is the night, a hurricane blows, / And the waves like mountains loom, / As bravely the stately "Berlin" goes'. This ballad should be sung to the air, 'The Miner's Dream of Home'. It was published by the 'Poet's Box' of 181 Overgate, Dundee. It would have cost a penny to buy or a penny-and-half by post.
The steam-ship the 'Berlin' was built in 1894 by the Earles Shipping and Engineering Company of Hull. It was commissioned and operated by the Great Eastern Railway Company who sailed it between Harwich and the Hook of Holland. This poem refers to its tragic sinking on the 21st February 1907, with a loss of over a hundred lives. Captain Sperling was on duty that night and although a mixture of passengers and crew were lost, most of the crew hailed from the Harwich area.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This report begins: 'Verses On The Melancholy Death of John White, his Wife, and Four Children, who perished in the present Snow Storm, Except one infant, who was found sucking the breast of its Dead Mother, near Pennycuick, on Wednesday morning last.' This sheet was printed by James Docherty of Edinburgh.'
Priced at one penny, this broadside tells of the tragic fate that befell the White family, who all died in a snowstorm while travelling to Penicuik, near Edinburgh. It seems that John White was a handloom weaver by trade. Following the invention and mass manufacture of weaving machinery, handloom weavers were forced to become itinerant workers, and they suffered terrible hardships as they searched for work.
In addition to including a prose account of the tragedy, this broadsheet also contains an account of the story in verse. It is interesting to consider why the story was repeated in different formats. It could be that an individual would read out the broadside to listeners, and that the verses helped to make the story more dramatic. This broadside is further embellished with several images, though, as so often happened, these graphics have nothing to do with the story and appear incongruous.This report begins: 'A true and full ACCOUNT Of the sad and deplorable Accident that happened at Muiross, where a whole Boat full of People were drowned, consisting of near 40 Men and Women, and several Horses, by the impetuousness of the Wind.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
This broadside tells the tragic story of the terrible fate that befell passengers on an overloaded boat, during a journey on the River Tweed between Muiross (Melrose) and Gallowshiels (Galashiels). It seems that a lethal combination of an overloaded boat and adverse weather conditions led to the boat's capsizing, and the consequent loss of 40 lives. The writer blames the boatman's covetousness for causing this tragedy, and comments that the boatman should not have taken on so many passengers. Its seems that the passengers were on their way to Muiross to enjoy the visiting Fair. A strong religious tone runs through this report, revealing much about the nature of Scottish society at this time.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of D. M'INNES, master, and P. M'BRIDE, pilot, of the Comet Steam-Boat, before the High Court of Admiralty, on Wednesday the 21st December 1825.' It was printed in Edinburgh for William Cameron and priced at one penny.
McInnes and McBride were accused of culpable homicide after their steamboat collided with another vessel on its journey from Inverness to Glasgow. Over sixty people appear to have died as a result of the accident. After the evidence was heard at their trial, the jury found McInnes guilty and McBride not guilty. At a time when people were being executed for petty crimes, such as housebreaking and theft, it is surprising that McInnes, after being found guilty, was only sentenced to three months' imprisonment. There are other broadsides in the Library's collections relating to this accident.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the melancholy loss of the Britannia Steam Boat, which was lost on her passage from Newry to the Broomielaw, early on Monday morning last. -Glasgow, 15th October, 1829.' This account was sourced from the Glasgow Courier of the same date and was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside includes a further story entitled 'THE STATE OF IRELAND', in which a group of 'Rockites' attacked a farm belonging to Sir Henry Parnell MP. The 'Rockites' was a name given to those involved in the 'Whiteboy movement' in Cork during the 1820s. The 'Whiteboys' were a secret society which originated in Limerick in the 1760s. They were strongly opposed to changes that were taking place in Irish agriculture at this time. They were renowned for their direct action, which often included targeting those in authority and sabotaging farmland.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This paper, written by Frederick W. Morris, an Edinburgh medical student, was issued on 19th November 1824. It is in response to a series of fires which broke out in Edinburgh earlier that month. These fires caused the worst damage the city had ever seen and the event came to be known as the Great Fire of Edinburgh.
Probably more from entrepreneurial than public-spirited motives, Frederick Morris proposes a system of using carbonic acid gas, more commonly referred to today as carbon dioxide, to extinguish fires. His idea of installing pipes into buildings, and controlling the release of the gas using a stopcock was never taken up, presumably for logistical as well as safety reasons (the gas is highly toxic if inhaled). However, many fire extinguishers today contain carbon dioxide.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The leading report on this broadside begins: 'An account of that Fatal Quarrel which took place bewteen Mr Mathieson (public house keepr in North Fowlis's Close, High street,) and his wife, on Wednesday last'. Also reported are a 'Melancholy Accident' involving the sinking of a boat in Inverness, and a 'Melancholy Suicide' in London. The sheet was published by Alexander Brown of Edinburgh in 1824.
Although larger, more expensive newspapers co-existed alongside broadsides and even provided the sources for some broadside stories, broadsides are recognised as being the forerunners of modern tabloids. The similarity is most obvious in the tendency of both broadside and tabloids to sensationalise stories and concentrate on the more outrageous or extreme aspects of human behaviour. However, the broadside pictured here anticipates tabloid reporting in a slightly different way, by including three very brief human interest stories from around the country.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'In this gay and festive season, / We must deplore the loss of life, / Human-beings endowed with reason, / Bent on pleasure, not on strife, / Suddenly life is taken away from them, / In a moment they are swept away, / Death has swiftly come upon them, / At the railway bridge on the River Tay.' This ballad was to be sung to an air entitled 'The Battle'.
On the night of 28 December 1879, the Tay Railway Bridge collapsed in high winds while a train was crossing it . All seventy-five people on board the train were killed. As is often the case with human tragedies, the event compelled people to write poems and songs as memorials to the victims. There is more than one poem commemorating the disaster in the National Library of Scotland's collection of broadsides, and the Dundee poet William McGonagall also wrote some famous verses about it.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'CHRISTMAS Time while mirth abounded, / Thro the country far and wide, / Happy homes are turned to sadness, / Dear friends in death lay side by side / Young and old upon the railway, / In the fatal train that day, / Litle thought to death were going, / From this life they've passed away.'
This ballad refers to the Tay Bridge disaster. The middle section of the Tay Railway Bridge collapsed in hurrcane-force winds on the night of 28 December 1879 while a train was crossing it. The seventy-five people on board the train were all killed. An enquiry found that the architect, Sir Thomas Bouch, had not taken the estuary winds into account in his original design. The tragedy also inspired a poem by the infamous Dundee poet William McGonagall, which remains much-quoted today.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside news report begins: 'Account of that Destructive Calamity which occurred at the Broomielaw on Tuesday evening, when the ice broke the Mooring to which the vessels were attached, and about forty vessels were set adrift, running and knocking each other to pieces, and a number went down. The number of lives lost has not been ascertained. Such a calamity never before occurred in the River Clyde.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow on the 9th of February, 1831, and the story is sourced from 'The Glasgow Free Press' of that same day. The sheet was published in February, 1831, by William Carse of Glasgow.
This broadside tells the harrowing story of how floating ice combined with a strong current in the River Clyde broke the moorings of many ships, whereupon they collided while moving quickly down-river. The sheet goes on to provide a list of the ships that sank, forty in total, but says the number of deaths is not yet known. This list of ships also gives details of the class of vessel, allowing historians to ascertain the type of trade that was occurring at the Broomielaw at this time. These freak weather conditions meant that residents in the Saltmarket and Briggate areas had to evacuate their houses due to flooding caused by the thaw.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'On the Clyde's bonny banks as I lately did wander, / near the village of Blantyre I chanced for to rove; / I saw a young female dressed in deep mourning, / She sadly lamented the fate of her lover.' The author is credited as 'John Wilson B. S.G.'
This ballad was based on a real tragedy, at Dixon's coal mine in High Blantyre on October 22nd, 1877. Over 200 miners were killed when a build-up of firedamp gas accidentally ignited and exploded. The infamy of this event has meant that this ballad is still better known than many today, and alternative versions of it are available online. It is unknown whether the 'John Wilson' credited with this version is any relation of the famous nineteenth-century Edinburgh philosopher, author and periodical editor John Wilson, alias Christopher North (1785-1854).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside report begins: 'A full true and particular Account of the Murder of a child at Musselburgh, yesterday morning, and of the apprehension of a woman who had left the Edinburgh City Workhouse the day before, and of her examination before the magistrates . . .' Below this prologue, is the introduction to a story about the loss of a packet ship called 'Boston', which was struck by lightning and sunk with all hands. Although the date of publication and name of the publisher are not included, the story was sourced from 'The Courant' newspaper - probably the Edinburgh Courant, published 1855-1859.
This broadside tells the tragic story of a woman who, it is claimed, murdered a newly-born baby in a quarry near Musselburgh Links. The details to this story are rather sketchy, with the investigation into the infant's violent death very much at an early stage. Judging by the reference to the workhouse in Edinburgh, the woman, who was reported to be either deranged or under the influence of drink, would certainly have been a pauper. Although this woman appears to be the main suspect, it is interesting to note that a group of gypsies who were camped nearby to the murder scene were moved on by the authorities.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Full, True and Particular Account of that most Horrid Murder which was committed on New Year's Morning, in Dunbar Street, Canal Basin, Edinburgh, on the body of Mrs Calderhead with a correct account of the apprehension of the Murderers ; with an account of that awful accident that happened on Saturday Morning, in Milne's Court, Lawnmarket, when a woman was burned to death.' This sheet was published by the Edinburgh printer John Campbell.
The first story reports the murder of Mrs Calderhead by two unnamed fellows, whilst the details of the murder could not be revealed for decency's sake. Not a lot of facts have been given here, but then this could be a fairly early report, close after the incident. The second story, also lacking in facts, reveals how an older woman was burned to death. Both these incidents occurred during the revelries of New Year, which the text itself points out can be quite rowdy in Scotland. They were written during a period when society was preoccupied with the link between poverty and class, and how this could be improved through self-discipline, self-denial and religion.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the shocking case of Mrs Anderson St Giles Street, Leith, found strangled to death in her house, on Monday morning last, with the apprehension of one of her neighbours, accused of having committed the diabolical murder ; also an account of the Dreadful destruction of Cromerty new jail by Fire, on Monday night, when shocking to relate, the keys of the prison were lost in the Confusion, and before the door could be forced open, the prisoners (whose horrid cries were heart-rending) were burned to death, and so reduced to ashes, that the bodies could not be known by their relations.' Printed by Forbes and Co. of Edinburgh.
Divided into two parts, this hybrid broadside starts off by reporting a murder in Leith, then moves on to tell the tragic story of how the trapped prisoners in Cromarty Jail were burnt to death during a fire. As broadsides that told of heinous crimes were particularly popular with the public, one imagines that the street-criers and ballad-singers who sold this one would have made much of the 'Murder' headline as they did their round of selling.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This entertaining story begins: 'An account of Joseph Macwilliam the Miser, who was burnt to death on the 13th June 1826, by accident, in Rose Street'. The woodcut at the top of the sheet, shows a well-fed and well-groomed gentleman to reinforce the story's theme.
Joseph MacWilliam was a gentleman's servant who rented a cellar in Rose Street, Edinburgh to live in. He was regularly the butt of his colleagues' and neighbours' jokes. They claimed to have seen him in the same threadbare clothes for 15 years and that he lived in damp and Spartan conditions. Upon searching his property after the accident over £8,000 was found. Some of this was in the form of property deeds, while more of it was in bank receipts. There was, however, very little else in the room itself. It would be curious to know then how he burnt to death!
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Loss of the Brig Minerva of Leith, belonging to Messrs Stenhouse, bound from Dublin to Glasgow, with Grain, which violently Struck on the Horse Island, off Ardrossan, Ayrshire, on Tuesday Morning, 18th December 1821'. This account was sourced from the 'Ayr Advertiser'.
According to this account, the tragic loss of the Minerva of Leith resulted in the deaths of five individuals: a crewman named Peter Porter and four passengers. Although the synopsis at the top of the sheet suggests that only three passengers lost their lives, this information is contradicted in the main report. Inaccuracies such as this were common in broadsides. In order to provide the reader with news that was current, broadside producers had to work extremely fast. Inevitably, this often led to spelling mistakes and factual errors.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside contains two ballads. The first ballad begins: 'How many thousands have found a grave / aneath the ever rolling wave, / And day by day the list we swell, / Another loss we have to tell.' A note below the title states that this ballad should be sung to a tune called 'Sailor's Grave'. Although the sheet is not dated, the topic of the first ballad suggests it was published around September 1878.
The second ballad begins: 'My girl invited me one Sunday home to tea, / Her Pa and Ma had gone out for the day, / Not feeling disinclined I said I didn't mind, / With the girl I loved to pass the time away.' A sub-title below the main title states that this ballad is a parody of a song called the 'Old Arm Chair'.
The chapmen who sold broadsides would have marketed this sheet as a bargain, since it offered two ballads for the price of one. The first ballad tells the awful story of the paddleboat steamer, The Princess Alice, which sunk in the Thames on Sunday September 3rd, 1878, following a collision with a collier. Tragically, of the 600 passengers who were on board the pleasure cruiser, only 50 survived. The second ballad gives a light-hearted account of the fun and adventures that take place when a young man visits his sweetheart in her home when the parents are out, only to find a cheeky parrot acting the part of an intrusive chaperone.Verse 1: 'Ye mariners and landsmen come listen unto me, / While unto you I do relate the dangers of the sea, / For the loss of the Francis Mary will grieve your to woe, / Of all the dreadful hardships that we did undergo.'
This ballad tells the story of a ship's passengers resorting to cannibalism after being marooned by a storm. Despite very specific details of the ship's name and passage being mentioned in the song, it is difficult to find records that will verify whether or not it is based in fact. It may be that it is pure invention, designed to thrill its audience. Horror stories and ghost stories were as popular one or two centuries ago as they are today.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Good people all now give attention, / Young and old of each degree'. The location of 'Moss End' is not specified, suggesting that the accident was well reported at the time and so the readers would have been up-to-speed on such detail.
Most probably published during the middle of the nineteenth century, this piece would have been of great topical interest as the Industrial Revolution was coming into its own. This report is also very close to modern day journalism, with a description of the events and the scene, then a further comment on those left behind. The men who died in the accident are all named as well.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This accident report begins: 'This is to let you understand that an old woman of Radcliffe Highway, was drowned in a heavy shower of feathers last night, 6 weeks ago.' There are no publication details attached to this sheet.
There are many sheets written in the same style held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which would suggest that this style of surreal writing may have been popular with its contemporary audiences. Today this style has been taken further through the medium of television and film in the genre of slap-stick comedy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Letter from Kirkaldy. DREADFUL ACCIDENT At Kirkaldy. By a Gallery in the Church falling down, during the time the Rev. Dr Irving was preaching to a crowed Audience whereby a great number was killed and wounded.' The letter that is included in the report is dated 'Monday Morning, June 16th 1828'. There are no publication details on the broadside.
The tragedy described in this report occurred on Sunday 15th June 1828, in Kirkcaldy Parish Church, which later became known as St Brycedale's. Later reports suggested that twenty-eight people were killed and more than one hundred injured when part of a crowded public gallery gave way. The congregation was apparently swollen because of a guest sermon from 'Rev. Mr Irving' . This is probably a reference to Edward Irving (1792-1834), a famous evangelical Church of Scotland minister who worked in Kirkcaldy before taking up a post in London in 1822. Irving was ejected from the Church of Scotland for heresy in 1833, and founded the Catholic Apostolic, or Irvingite Church.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the COMET, a fine Smack belonging to the London and Edinburgh Shipping Company of Leith, on her passage from London, on the morning of Tuesday last, on Yarmouth Sands; with the Wonderful preservation of the Passengers and Crew, and their astonishing Sufferings and extraordinary escape, when the Vessel sunk in deep water.' A woodcut of a sailing ship adorns the top of the sheet.
The London and Edinburgh Shipping Company Ltd was established in 1809 and it is likely that this sheet was published within the following 30 years. These were the days of the famous smacks, which were followed by the almost equally famous Aberdeen-built clippers. In 1833, the 'Isabella', one of the L&ESC's other smacks, brought the first cargo of tea to Leith, the first seen in Britain outside London.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside letter begins: 'SIR, ACCORDING to your desire, I have sent you an Account of the lamentable Catastrophe, which happen'd on Thursday the 9th of May instant, which has filled all the Kingdom with an universal Regret; and this Part of it with the utmost Grief and Confusion imaginable; which is to be seen in the Faces of young and old, all over the Country; the fact is as follows . . .' Although no publication details are listed, the date on the letter itself is given as the 16th of May, 1728.
This broadside tells of the tragic end that befell the Earl of Strathmore, in 1728. The letter writer describes the awful death of the Earl as a terrible accident, and reports that he was killed while trying to break up a fight that occurred outside a tavern, following a drunken wake. However, Carnegie of Finhaven, the man whose blow killed the Earl, was tried for his murder in a famous trial. Defended by Robert Dundas, the case became famous not only for its sensational content, but also because it resumed the right of Scottish juries to 'judge a case not only by the naked facts, but of the facts and the law conjunctively'. Thanks to this reassertion of ancient Scottish rights, a verdict of not proven was returned.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad is prefaced by an explantion which reads: 'THE BRIDGE WAS BLOWN DOWN, WITH THE LAST TRAIN FROM THE SOUTH, ON SUNDAY EVENING, THE 28TH DAY OF DECEMBER 1879, WHEN IT WAS SUPPOSED THAT OVER SIXTY LOVES WERE LOST, AND NONE WERE LEFT TO TELL THE TALE. There are now Forty-six bodies recovered, two of which are women, and one a girl, and all identified. 15th May 1880.' The ballad begins: 'The Bridge, the Bridge, the wondrous Bridge / That spans the Firth of Tay . . .' It was written by C. Horne and published in Aberdeen.
The first Tay Bridge, designed by Thomas Bouch (1822-90), was completed in 1878. After the collapse of the bridge, as described in the preface to this ballad, a public enquiry found Bouch's design to blame for the disaster, maintaining that it was not adequate to withstand strong winds. The tragedy inspired various songs and poems, most famously William McGonagall's (c.1825-1902) 'The Tay Bridge Disaster'. McGonagall claimed that 'ninety lives have been taken away', while this broadside puts the figure at sixty. It is now believed that seventy-five lives were lost in the disaster.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This news report begins: 'A Full, true and Particular Account of the Melancholy Loss of the british Convict Ship AMPHITRITE, on the evening of Saturday last, the 31st August 1833, of Boulogne, when 108 Female Convicts, 12 Children and 13 Seamen met with a watery grave, in sight of thousands, none being saved out of 136 Souls but Three!' The broadside was published by Menzies of the Lawnmarket in Edinburgh, and the story was sourced from the Observer newspaper.
The loss of the Amphitrite had a big impact on the British public. The tone of this report reflects the sympathy and anger that was felt at such a loss of life and implies suspicion that proper safety procedures may not have been observed because the ship carried convicts rather than passengers: 'The British public demands that an inquiry be instituted into the conduct of all the parties concerned in this deplorable affair'. This was one of the first major losses of a convict ship bound for Australasia, but within two years two more vessels, the 'George III' and the 'Neva' had also sunk with major losses of life.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account of that dreadful and destructive Fire that took place in Leith this morning, when the entensive Steam Mills on the Shore were burned to the ground, besides a number of houses and property amounting to about £30,000, besides a number of persons severely hurt. The particulars correctly given by an eye witness.' Printed by Forbes & Co., Printers, Edinburgh.
Using an eye witness report, this broadside dramatically tells the story of a massive fire that destroyed mills and residential buildings at the Shore in Leith, Edinburgh. This report is very similar in style and tone to contemporary newspaper accounts of fires and accidents. The immediacy of the broadside is also interesting, in the way it relates to the fire that took place 'this morning'. According to the Gentleman's Magazine for 1 January 1833, this fire took place on 29 December 1832. Clearly, the street-criers and ballad-singers would have great difficulty in selling broadsides that contained old news.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Loss of the Benlomond Steam Boat, in the Firth of Forth, this morning, when on her passage from Newhaven to Alloa and Stirling.' The publisher was Francis McCartney of Edinburgh.
The incident reported here is not at all well-known in Scotland today, but had circumstances been different it might be remembered as one of the worst transport disasters ever to befall the country. All the passengers aboard the burning steamer 'Ben Lomond' were rescued by local fishermen from Cramond on the Firth of Forth. Steam cruises on the Forth-Clyde canal and in the Firths of Forth and Clyde were highly popular in the nineteenth century.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of a most dreadful circumstance which happened on Tuesday the 18th February instant, in consequence of the escape, from Wombwell's Menagerie, of the celebrated Lion, Wallace, and a large Tigress, by which melancholy accident, Four Human Beings were destroyed!!!' The broadside publisher was Menzies, and the story was sourced from the Northampton Herald.
Wombwell's Travelling Menagerie was founded in the early nineteenth century by George Wombwell (1777-1850), a London businessman who had been acquiring and showing exotic animals for some years. Wallace the Lion, one of the assailants mentioned in this broadside report, was the first lion to be born in Britain. Wombwell named him after William Wallace, the champion of Scottish independence. Although the report was sourced in England, the menagerie visited Scotland annually and there would have been great interest in this bizarre tragedy north of the border. Wallace had actually been involved in an arranged fight in Warwick with 6 dogs in August 1825, for which Wombwell was severely criticized on the grounds of cruelty.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Full, True, and Particular Account of the melancholy Shipwreck of the London Smack, Czar, near North Berwick, on Friday night last, when the Master, five of the crew, and thirteen Passengers were drowned.' The report has been taken from the Edinburgh Courant newspaper and published by John Campbell, Edinburgh. The 'Czar' went down in 1831.
Below the story of the 'Czar' are a few more tales of death and destruction, always popular with the readers! The sheet must have been published in the winter as the stories relate to cold-weather problems. Firstly , there is a story about a coal-hewer who died after getting lost in snow. In Fife, it is reported that 11 people died in the snow. Finally, a report of another shipwreck, this time at Leith. All perished.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of a most Calamtious [sic] FIRE which happened in a large Tenement in the Cowgate, Edinburgh, this morning, Monday, 10th September, 1821, about half an hour before One o'Clock, by which three Lives were Lost, and several severely Wounded and Bruised.'
As with the newspapers of today, broadsides were extremely timely. Competition between publishers was so fierce that each tried to bring people news almost as it was happening. This broadside appeared only a few hours after a fire raged through two tenements and a number of shops in Edinburgh's Cowgate. Given the time of the fire, around one o'clock in the morning, and the overcrowded nature of tenements at this time, it is quite remarkable that only three people died in the blaze.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Full and correct account of that dreadful and awful Fire which happened at the house of Lord Walsingham, in Cavendish Square, London, on the morning of Wednesday last, when his Lordship's body was burned to ashes, and Lady Walsingham, to save her life, had jumped over [i.e. out of] a window, and her mangled body was found in the back yard, and she died in a few hours.' The publisher of the broadside is not noted, but its source is given as the 'Caledonian Mercury'. The sheet was priced at one penny.
The broadside refers to a fire at 55 Upper Harley Street, London, that claimed the life of Lord Walsingham at the age of 55. Contemporary sources, including this report taken from the 'Caledonian Mercury', report that George de Grey, the third Lord Walsingham (1776-1831), and his wife Matilda Methuen both died as a consequence of the fire in the early hours of 27 April 1831. An inquest which took place later that day concluded that the deaths of the deceased had been 'caused accidentally and by misfortune'. It was subsequently revealed that Lord Walsingham had been in poor health and on medication, and may not have been in a fit state to save himself when the fire broke out in his bedroom. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that Dreadful Explosion of Gunpowder, at Stobbs Mills, on Thursday last the 17th February, 1825, at a few minutes past Eight in the morning, by which two Men and a Horse lost their lives, and several others were severely injured.' The sheet was priced at one penny and was published by Robert McMillan. The place of publication is not noted.
The gunpowder works at Stobsmills were founded in the late eighteenth century, around the same time that the village of Gorebridge began to grow up around the new bridge over the Gore Water in Midlothian. Despite the severity of the damage caused in this explosion in 1825, production continued at the the gunpowder works until 1875. Today Gorebridge exists primarily as a residential area for Edinburgh commuters.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice begins: 'One Hundred and Twenty-two Lives Lost! / A full and particular Account of the loss of the Ship Governor Fenner, with Emigrants for America, which took place off Holyhead, on Saturday Morning last, when 122 Men, Women and Children lost their lives.' This story was sourced from the 'Edinburgh Observer' of Tuesday 23rd February, 1841. A sketchy woodcut of a boat has been included.
Newspapers although extant at the time, enjoyed only a limited readership, mainly due to their cost. Their content, however, was often of a more diverse and international nature than broadside reporters could source. As a result articles were often copied from the newspapers onto single sheets to be sold as broadsides. This kept publishers' costs down but increased their revenue exponentially. This was possible at the time as copyright laws were only in their infancy, although situations such as this probably contributed to tightening them up.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular account of that Dreadful Accident which occurred in this city on Saturday afternoon, by the falling in of a house in Picardy Place, when crowded with company of the first respectability attending the sale of the Lord Eldon's Pictures, -- Giving the full particulars of that melancholy catastrophe, with the names of the unfortunate sufferers.' Although no publication details are included, the reference to the late Lord Eldon suggests the sheet was published in, or around, 1838.
Picardy Place, which is in the centre of Edinburgh, is the location where this tragic accident took place. Although the attention-grabbing headline suggests that this was a major disaster, there was only one fatality, a banker called Alexander Smith. However, the sheet also contains an extensive list of those who were injured, including many members of genteel Edinburgh society. As an 'Old Tory' MP and Lord Chancellor, John Scott, Lord Eldon (1751-1838) was an important figure in Georgian public life, and was famous for drafting the Regency bill of 1788 and for opposing political reform. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains another broadside that also describes this tragic accident.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: A Full and Authentic Account of the Dreadful and Fatal ACCIDENT that happened the COMET Steam-Boat, on her passage from Inverness and Fort-William to Glasgow, yesterday morning, Friday the 21st October, 1825, when, off Kempock Point, she was suddenly Struck by the Steam Boat Aya, and instantly went down, by which melancholy circumstance, SEVENTY Human Beings were in a single moment precipitated into Eternity!!!' The publisher was William Robertson, the 'Flying Stationer', of Edinburgh.
The 'Comet', designed by Henry Bell (1767-1830) from Helensburgh and built in 1811, was the world's first successfully operational passenger steamship. An earlier Scottish steam vessel, the Charlotte Dundas, had been withdrawn because it had caused too much damage to the Forth and Clyde canal. Initially the 'Comet' operated only in the Firth of Clyde, but after being lengthened it was switched to the route between Inverness and Glasgow. The original 'Comet' was wrecked on rocks off Oban in 1820, and it was the replacement vessel that sank with many losses of life in 1825, as described in this broadside.
The 'flying stationer' referred to in the imprint was another name for a seller or hawker of broadsides and chapbooks. 'Walking stationer' and 'Running stationer' were other terms used.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Account of the dreadful accident which took place on Saturday at Picardy Place Edinburgh, at the sale of Lord Eldin's splendid collection of pictures, when the floor of the Auction Room gave way, and 150 Persons were buried in the ruins.'
Despite the dramatic headline and sensationalist tone of this broadside, fortunately, only one life was lost during the collapse of the auction room building. In fact, much of the broadside is dedicated to the memory of the one man who was killed, and it often reads like an obituary column from a newspaper. Its text-heavy nature suggests that it may have been aimed at the upper classes, a point supported by the list of honourable ladies and gentlemen who were injured.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that FATAL ACCIDENT at Tarbet on Loch Lomond, on Friday last, 29th August, 1828, by the upsetting of a Boat, by which Eleven Lives were Lost!!!' The broadside was priced at one penny. Its publishers and place of publication are not noted.
The Scot James Watt (1736-1819) revolutionised the steam engine by inventing the separate condenser in 1769, which made steam-powered ships viable. Steam ships were developed in America and Europe throughout the 1780s and 1790s, but the world's first successful passenger steamer was the 'Comet', built and launched in 1812 by another Scot, Henry Bell (1767-1830). Early steamers were quite prone to accidents, as the report shown suggests. The 'Lady of the Lake', which sank off Tarbet, was launched in 1815 and was probably the first Clyde steamer to be named after one of Sir Walter Scott's works. Several other steamers would subsequently take their names from Scott.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.