This broadside story begins: 'A strange and wonderful Relation concerning a Mermaid that was seen and spoke with on the Cliff of Cromarry, near Inverness in Scotland, by a young gentleman, a Merchant, named Lauchland Mackintosh, who was tossed on the main Ocean for four Days and Nights. Together with an account of his wonderful Dream, and the strange Conversation he had with the Mermaid, and how he was preserved after his Return to Inverness.' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
Illustrated with two woodcuts depicting nautical images, this broadside tells the story of a young seafarer who entered a fantastical land, after being caught up in a storm at sea. It seems that he met a beautiful young lady who showed him round her castle, which was guarded by five massive serpents. It turns out, however, that this young lady was in fact a mermaid. The delirious nature of the sailor means that his story is blurred between a dream landscape and real life, although he claims that the ring on his finger was a token of affection left to him by the mermaid. Supernatural tales such as this would have appealed to the imagination of the general public.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A particular account of John Thomson, a journeyman plasterer, who has been working in one of the New Buildings in Lord Moray's Park . . . and who was discovered by a strange accident, to be Female, on Tuesday last'. There are no publication details on the sheet.
John Thomson's real name was Helen Oliver, and she had apparently begun her transformation into a man whilst serving as a maid in East Kilbride. Apparently a 'particular intimacy took place between her and a person in a neighbouring house, who officiated as a ploughman'. It turned out that this 'ploughman' was also female and introduced her to the idea of changing sex, at least outwardly.
The report goes on to explain that John Thomson had been known by other names, and had been 'discovered' in Glasgow a few months previous. Her true sex was revealed when she fell from a ladder and a workmate was brushing lime from her chest. It is interesting to note that the tone of the piece is not condemnatory although 'John' is expected to move on to Haddington and work under another name.This report begins: 'An account of rather a New and Curious Circumstance that took place at Aberdeen a few days ago, between a respectable Lecturer on Anatomy in that City, and a party of Sailors from a Merchant Vessel, who touched there on her voyage from America. - Extracted from "the Fife Journal" of Thursday the 26th February, 1829.' Included at the top of the sheet are woodcut illustrations of three sailing vessels.
Woodcut illustrations generally added to a broadside's appeal and proved popular amongst the readership. In this instance, the image included relates to the subject of the broadside. In many cases, however, the illustration bore little or no relation to the topic at hand. For efficiency and cost-effectiveness, many broadside producers chose to reuse their, often limited, stock of woodcut images. 'A New Way of Raising the Wind' involves a group of sailors en route from America, who, during a stop in Aberdeen, become involved in a rather unusual adventure.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A most Strange and Wonderful Account of the Courage and Intrepidity of JOHN M'GREGOR, a British Sailor . . . who, when that vessel was lying in Carlile Bay, on seeing a sincere Friend of his, belonging to the same Ship, snapped through the middle by a large Shark . . . jumped into the sea . . . and pursued the veracious [sic] monster.' A note at the bottom states that the sheet was 'Printed for the Booksellers' and sold for a penny.
Stories of mortal danger and courageous acts were as popular in the nineteenth century, when this sheet was published, as they are now. This broadside goes into a great amount of detail describing all the gory details of the shark attack and the ensuing fight between McGregor and the 'dreadful Fish'. Extraordinarily, McGregor overpowered the shark and then recovered the missing pieces of his dead friend's body from the shark's stomach.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: ?The first of my misfortunes was to list & desert / the way for to rob I soon found an art / Over hedges and ditches when I took my way / And I went a roving by night and by day?. There is no date or place of publication.
This is a version of a well-known folksong ?Brennan on the moor? which probably dates from the early 19th century. It concerns the adventures of William Brennan who was a highwayman in the 18th century. He operated around the Kilworth area in County Cork, Ireland. Brennan was hanged at Cork in 1804.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.