This report begins: 'Account of a Woman who was buried alive, and who broke open the coffin while they were laying her in the grave, which so frightened the company that they fled in every direction; also, a copy of the interesting Dream which she had in that state. CHELMSFORD, Oct. 4th, 1821.' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
William Carse was one of a number of prominent publishers working out of the Saltmarket area of Glasgow in the early nineteenth century. Along with his two main competitors, John Muir and Thomas Duncan, Carse vied to be the first to issue circuit court lists, last speeches and lamentations. Competition was extremely fierce and, in order to survive, broadside producers had to work fast. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a wide range of broadsides published by all three men.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'When night's dark mantle has covered all / I come in fire arrayed; / many a victim I've seen fall, / Or fly from me dismay'd. / Will-o'-the-wisp! they trembling cry, / Will-o'-the -wisp! 'tis he! / To mark their fright as off they fly / Is merry sport for me.' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, and was priced at one penny. It was published on Saturday, 1st May 1869 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
The subject of this poem is a natural phenomenon that has long been regarded in British folklore as a portentous symbol. Will-o'-the-wisp is the popular name for standing flames that are occasionally seen on boggy ground. These are thought to be caused by the spontaneous ignition of methane gas that has been produced by rotting marsh vegetation. Myth has associated will-'o-the-wisp with the spirits of the dead or with supernatural agents, and stories abound of the peculiar natural lights luring men and women into danger or appearing where death is about to occur.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This account begins: 'The St. James's surprizing and a frightful  APPARITION / Being a fearful and terrible Account of a wonderful Vision that appeared at St. James's Park, near St. James's House on Saturday Night, being the 13th of January 1722.'
The apparition is said to have been four headless men carrying a coffin, accompanied by a fifth headless man on horseback. It was apparently seen by  several sentinels posted near the late Duke of Buckingham's house in London. It is worth noting that this broadside appeared at a time when women were still being burned at the stake for practising witchcraft. In a country where fear and suspicion of the unknown led to these barbaric practices, it is hardly surprising that reports of apparitions and supernatural occurrences had a strange appeal amongst a highly superstitious populace.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the introduction continues: 'OR his last ADVICE to the Gipsies, and other Gangs of Robbers and Murderers in Scotland. The ballad itself begins: 'Plung'd in black Darkness and Eternal Night, / For Crimes committed 'gainst Almighty Light'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Often sounding like a fire and brimstone sermon from a zealous preacher, this broadside is a warning to criminals to start behaving themselves and thinking of their eternal souls. Written from the viewpoint of a lost soul who now lives a hellish existence on 'the other side', he warns sinners that they must repent now, since repentance after death is too late to save their souls. In an age when religion was one of the main tools of social control, this broadside tells us much about how powerful religion used to be in Scottish society. Writing this warning from the perspective of a ghost lends a supernatural element to the broadside, and stops it from sounding too much like a sermon.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This intriguing report begins: 'STRANGE AND WONDERFULL APPARITIONS That was seen in the Air, over the most Parts of Europe, on March Last, 1719, but more Particularly, in SCOTLAND, ENGLAND, FRANCE and SPAIN, with same Remarks thereon. No publication details are given.
During March and April 1719, it appears there were 'Great Lightnings' in the skies over Europe. This report gives the dates, times and locations of such 'apparitions', and vivid descriptions. The ocurrence in Glasgow seems to have been particularly spectacular, there was 'a Light of several Coulers, and immediately thereafter, there appeared as it were a large Flaming Sword'. The author concludes that the people should not ignore these 'signs from God', lest they suffer the fate of the 'misbelieving Jews, before the Destruction of Jerusalem'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An Account of a wonderful Prodigy seen in the Air, on Tuesday the 15th Day of this Instant May, 1722, by John Moor, at Crawfords-dyke, near Greenock.' Unfortunately, but not unusually, the publisher's name has not been included on this broadside.
It is possible the spectacle viewed by Moor was in fact the northern lights (aurora borealis). He begins by describing it as a broad rainbow in the sky, only to conclude that it appeared as 'two Armies fighting and attacking, retiring and advancing alternatively very often'. In a highly superstitious age, natural phenomena such as lightning, hailstones and the northern lights were often regarded with suspicion and mistaken for supernatural occurrences.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside story begins: 'A Strange and Wonderful Account of an Inhuman Murder Committed in the Canongate of Edinburgh, on Monday 15th of March, by James Scoogy on the Person of Common Sense'. There are no publication details included on this sheet.
'Beware the Ides of March!' could be the headline for this light-hearted broadside. The story centres on the idea that the concept of common sense could be murdered by a man in Edinburgh called James Scoogy. It appears that Scoogy was making his way home late one night, when he bumped into the spirit of common sense. The ghost then takes over the narrative from the writer, and laments that he was killed by James Scoogy of the Canongate. After the ghost of common sense has finished telling his supernatural tale, he disappears back into the night. With the writer now back in control of the narrative, he concludes by expressing his hopes that the murderer will soon be brought to justice.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A True and Particular Account of the Disastrous Circumstances attending the Horrible and most awful Appearance of a GHOST, which took place in a House in the High Street of Edinburgh, on Wednesday Evening, the 17th October, 1827.' What then follows is an extract from the Edinburgh Weekly Chronicle of the 24th October, 1827. This broadside was printed by William Walters, and sold for one penny.
The account details two ghost sightings in Edinburgh, both of which occurred within the space of a week: one in Stevenlaw's Close and the other at 166 High Street. The first sighting appears to have been witnessed by a group of around 500 hundred people, whilst the spectre at 166 High Street was viewed by a solitary maid-servant. Accounts of apparitions and other strange occurrences were extremely popular amongst the broadside-reading public and, as such, always sold in large quantities.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Keep your seat if you please, and don't be afraid, / I am only a ghost, a poor harmless shade; / I would not hurt any one here if I could, / And you couldn't do me much harm if you would'. A note under the title informed readers that this popular song could be purchased from the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee. It was printed by W. Shepherd.
The ghost of Benjamin Binns makes regular visits to the land of the living from his 'home down below'. Horrified to find his wife has taken another husband, Benjamin decides to speak to them both in 'sepulchral tones'. He also wittily recounts his paid visits to the Spiritualist's midnight séance.
Throughout the nineteenth century people were fascinated by the subject of death and the prospect of life after death. The interest largely came from advances in medical science and scientific reasoning, and the questioning of religious doctrines. For many, Spiritualism provided the evidence they required to believe that life continued after death. Interest in the supernatural reached such heights that even songs such as this, which poked fun at the notion, sold extremely well.This account begins: 'AT Mid-night Hours, when Nature seems to nod, / And Sleep triumphs upon the Works of God, / Tormented Souls awake, and Spirits fly abroad, / Appear'd, with smiling Face, a Female's Ghost'. This broadside was published in Edinburgh by James Ross. A handwritten note at the top reads: 'This was made on Mrs McLeod who was hanged & falsly said to appear aga[in?]'. The date '1727' has also been added to the bottom of the sheet.
The decorative woodcut printed at the top of this sheet would have added to the broadside's appeal and, along with the popularity of the subject matter, most likely assured healthy sales. If the handwritten note is to be accepted, the apparition of the title was a Mrs McLeod who was hanged in 1727. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes a number of broadsides detailing the case of Mrs McLeod who was executed for forgery in 1727. It is very possibly the same Mrs McLeod that is referred to here.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'A full and particular account of a remarkable and fearful noise and disturbance, that has continued for above three weeks at a Farmer's house at Sourhole, in the parish of Colinton, a few miles south west of Edinburgh.' It was published in Edinburgh by J. Morren, possibly in 1801.
It appears that the noises, which apparently could be heard up to a quarter of a mile away, were investigated by several people, including a number of clergymen. With the suggestion that the disturbance could be supernatural, it is stressed that those involved were 'serious Christians'. Reports of unusual events, including apparitions, noises and strange lights in the sky proved popular reading with the public. There was a fascination, as there is today, with 'the unexplained'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.