The first ballad begins: 'NOW wat ye wha I met the Streen', coming down the Street my Jo? / My Mistress in her Tartan Skreen / sow Bonny braw and sweet my Jo.'
The second ballad begins: 'Bessy Bell and Mary Gray, / they are two bonny Lasses, / They bigg'd a Bower on yon Burn-brae, / And theek'd it o'er wi Rashes.' Both ballads were written by Allan Ramsay (1686-1758).
The first ballad explores the timeless theme of a young man's imagination running away with itself, upon meeting his beloved walking along a street. Suddenly, the audience is magically transported into a peaceful dale inhabited by larks and nightingales, while the young lovers lock arms. The second ballad appears to be a eulogy dedicated to two young ladies who are graceful and beautiful. Tragically, however, this ballad is apparently based on the deaths of Bessie Bell and Mary Gray, who died of the plague in 1645.This ballad begins: 'The Carle came hirpling ov'r a tree / With many fair fleetching good days and good deens to me.' The text preceding the ballad reads: 'For being slighted by a Youngman in a Palmers Weed. / To the Tune of the, Gaberluingie Man'.
Very little information is known about the lyrics to this ballad but there is a similar ballad dated c.1680 entitled 'The West-Country Damosels Complaint'. As with all narratives in the oral tradition there was scope for changing details to interest the audience. As these changes are retold they become established in the tradition, but with no record of the change. There is a ballad known as the 'Gaberlunzie-man' which was first written down in 1724. Both songs have similar themes.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I'm what they ca' a Johnny Raw, / Just now come frae the country, / I ken but little or nought ava / Compared wi Glasgow gentry. / Although I'm but a country loon, / And no sae lang cam to the toon, / Yet I'm no sae easy taken doun.' 'Ava' means 'at all' and 'loon' means 'man' or 'boy'.
This light-hearted ballad tells of the humorous episodes that a young man from the country (from Fintry in Stirlingshire) experiences upon moving to the big city of Glasgow. Most of these episodes centre on how city people, thinking Johnny Raw is wet behind the ears because he is from the country, try to take advantage of his innocence and honesty. However, Johnny is nobody's fool, and is quite capable of looking after himself. Although the refrain, 'Ye'll find I've seen my granny', recurs at the end of each verse, it is not clear what this phrase actually means.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ye mariners of England! / Who guard our native seas / Whose flag had braved, a thousand years, / The battle and the breeze!' The sheet was published by J. Bowie, printer, of 49 Causeyside, Paisley. A woodblock showing a sailing ship has been used twice to decorate the top of the page.
This famous ballad was written by Thomas Campbell (1777-1844), a poem who wrote 'Gertrude of Wyoming' and 'Theodoric'. The idea for this song seems to have been borrowed from an old song entitled, ?Ye Gentlemen of England,? written by Martyn Parker (d.1630).
It sings the praises of the English Navy which played a very important role in securing the whole of Great Britain's safety from invasion for a very long time. Great heroes such as Nelson (1758-1805) are praised. The song ends on a positive note, and looks to quieter times ahead, 'when the storm has ceased to blow'.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Here's to the year that awa, / We will drink it in strong and in sma' / An' here's to ilk bonnie lassie we lo'e'.
This contemplative New Year song, addresses many popular broadside themes in its short verses. Love, death, war, travel, friendship and adversity are all mentioned here, and can be found in most of the sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. These topics were important to Scottish society as a whole, and would have been instantly recognisable to most of the audience. Although a little dismal at first sight, this song does convey a feeling of closure, and readiness for a fresh start.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'To the Worshipful, Cordners of the West-Port, / A humble PETITION is entered in Court, / For Apprentice Booys, who would fain take a Drink, / Be blyth like their Masters, but want ready clink.' This sheet was published on 8th May, probably in 1725, the original part of the sheet is missing. There is no publisher given for this piece though.
The Worshipful Company of Cordwainers was given its first Ordinance, thus making it official, in 1272. They chose St Crispin as their patron saint due to his involvement in and association with shoemaking. This poem refers to the Saint and his day, October 25th. On this day a traditional holiday was declared for shoemakers, on which a festival was held. The apprentices on this day had a reputation for creating mayhem and making a nuisance of themselves.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'My horse he is white, although at first he was bay, / He took great delight in travelling by night and by day; / His travels were great, if I could the half of them tell, / He was rode in the garden by Adam the day that he fell.' The broadside carries no publication details.
The 'Wonderful Grey Horse' described by this ballad, is a magical horse that has apparently been present at some of the greatest moments of history, from the fall of Adam in the Garden of Eden, to the Battle of Waterloo. His age and experiences have whitened his hair, which originally was bay, or chestnut-coloured. The final four verses of the ballad, which refer to the Irish nationalists Patrick Sarsfield (c.1650-93) and Daniel O' Connell (1775-1847) as heroes, reveal that it is being narrated by a supporter of the Irish Home Rule Movement, and was probably published in the mid-nineteenth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Oh Erin! give ear to your emigrant's ditty, / That mourns for old Granua each day; / Over Europe we're scattered in each port and city, / While we're seeking employment each day.' 'Erin' is 'Ireland' and 'Granua' is 'Mother Ireland'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
Whilst this ballad pays homage to Ireland, it also bemoans the traitors of Erin who, through bad legislation, brought the country to its knees. As a result of agricultural policies that favoured the rights of landowners over tenant farmers, poverty and starvation became mainstays of agricultural life in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Ireland.
In the second verse of the ballad, the line 'In the midst of plenty some thousands are starving' could be referring to the Irish potato famine of the late 1840s, during which hundreds of thousands of Irish peasants died after the failure of the potato crop, and many more emigrated to escape a smiliar fate. The tragic irony of these years is that while people were dying from starvation, plentiful supplies of wheat, oats, barley and meat were being exported from Ireland. A broadside dealing with such issues would have proved extremely popular with the thousands of Irish immigrants who had settled in Scotland.Verse 1: 'YOU men and you wives lend an ear to my song, / I warrant 'twill please you and not keep you long, / Indeed it's no joke but the truth I declare, / It's concerning your wives a trimming of their hair.' The broadside was published by Robert McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, in Glasgow. Although it is not dated it is likely to have been published in the mid-nineteenth century, when McIntosh is known to have had premises at this address.
'Woman's Pride' was probably written as a comic ballad with a cautionary message. It is a satirical attack on women who wear fashionable or elaborate hairstyles, mocking their 'false silly curls' and accusing them of vanity and extravagance. To a modern audience this song is deeply misogynistic, but ballads with similar sentiments were quite common in Victorian Britain. During that period there was a significant school of thought that believed women, particularly if married, should embrace a very domesticated, family-orientated role, and reject a showy social identity.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye sons of Albion bind up your arms, / To quell the rebel band'. There are directions for these lyrics to be sung to the tune 'Britain's sons never were afraid'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. Lindsay worked from these premises during the 1850s.
It was during this period that there was an unstable balance of power between France and Britain, which was being acted out on the Iberian Peninsula. What had started in the late 1820s as a strong Franco-British alliance for mutual gain in Spain and Portugal was, by this time, soured by suspicion and ambition. As a result, Britain lost much of the political influence it had gained in Spain and suffered continual military defeats there. There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which deal with Franco-British politics during this period.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'The oldest person in the world, on land or on the water, / Never saw such times before, since Sampson killed his daughter. / The peoples' doors, I am so sure, are on the hinges creaking; / All clothes are pop'd, all works are stopp'd, and all the Merchants breaking.' The sheet carries no publication details.
This broadside is not dated, but certain details in the ballad suggest that it was written in the mid 1850s. The line 'Old Aberdeen, in the House of Lords, knock'd down Lord Stanley right slap' refers to George Hamilton Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen (1784-1860), replacing Edward Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby (1799-1868), as prime minister in 1852. The final three verses suggest that the poem was composed during the Crimean War (1854-56). The 'stagnation' probably refers to a decline in the textiles industry which badly affected Scotland from about 1840. Economic recovery in the second half of the nineteenth century was helped by growth in the iron and shipbuilding industries.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Curse on this Indian war that ere it began, / And wae to the savages that formed the plan; / But Britons are heroes we'll soon let them know, / That we'll seon be revenged so let's bundle and go.' The broadside carries no publication details.
This song is a call to arms inspired by the First Indian War of Independence, known in Britain as the Indian Mutiny, which began in 1857. Britain had established trading stations in India through the British East India Company in the early seventeenth century, and India was recognised as part of the British Empire by the Treaty of Paris in 1763. The causes behind the war of 1857 were complicated, but at its root lay the British colonists' increasing interference in Indian traditions and beliefs. As the Indian side was made up mainly of sepoys, Indian soldiers who had served in the British Army, Britain had to recruit new troops from the home nations, hence the words of this song. The British, displaying a brutality that became infamous, were eventually victorious.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Curse on this Indian war that ere it began, / And wae to the savages that formed the plan'. There are no publication details included on this sheet.
The 'Sir Colin' referred to in the text is Sir Colin Campbell who lead the 93rd Regiment, the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, into battle at Balaclava in 1854. Their brave, unorthodox and successful single line stance - the 'thin red line' -  instead of a square, against the Russian's cavalry charge, delighted the British public and ensured their lasting fame. Previous to this the 93rd were stationed in Canada, the West Indies and after this, in 1855, they went on to distinguish themselves in India.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This popular song begins: 'Now all the girls are going mad, / For pop goes the weasel, / And the finest tune we ever had, / Is pop goes the weasel.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
As with many traditional nursery rhymes and songs there are numerous versions of this song in existence, although the repetition of 'pop goes the weasel' is generally found in each. Its origins are shrouded in mystery, with some claiming that it is an English rhyme dating back to the seventeenth or eighteenth century and others suggesting a possible American influence. Whilst the meaning of the song has also created a certain amount of discussion, it does seem clear that there was a popular dance of the same name. This has long been a favourite song amongst both adults and children and would have very likely sold well as a broadside.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: ''Twas just one year ago to-day, / That I remember well, / I sat down by dear Nelly's side'. This song was to be sung to its original tune and would have cost a penny to buy. It was published by the Poet's Box (probably Glasgow) but the accompanying address has been burnt out of the sheet. It was issued on Saturday 1st October, 1870.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I crossed Forth, I crossed Tay, / I left Dundee, and Edinborrow, / I saw nothing there was worth my stay.' This song was supposed to be sung to its own proper tune.
This song was printed on other broadsides, held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, indicating its popularity. During the late eighteenth century highland figures were romanticised and a literary motif of rolling a girl in a highlander's plaid to claim her was established. Perhaps this reflected an aspect of social behaviour at the time. This rather racy song discusses a woman's folly at choosing a poor and almost uncouth highlander, who in reality cannot provide for her - a stern social warning to other prospective brides.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A Noble Man lived near a Village of late, / Hard by a poor T[h]resher, whose Charge it was great; / He had seven children and most of them small, / And none but his Labour to keep them withall.' The ballad was to be sung 'To an Excellent New Tune'. The top of the broadside is illustrated with woodcuts, the first showing one man extending the hand of friendship to another, the second showing an armed man on horseback.
The story of this ballad is summed up in a short prose preface: 'Giving a true account of a Nobleman, who taking Notice of the poor man's Industrious Care and Pains for the maintaining of his charge, which was Seven small Children, meeting with him upon a day, Discoursed with him, and invited him and his Wife, with his Children, Home to his House; and accordingly bestowed upon him a Farm of Thirty Aikers of Land, to be continued to him and his Heirs.' The ballad, in rhyming couplets, is narrated mainly in the third person but also contains verses of dialogue between the nobleman and the countryman.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The grand June sun with regal sway / Has through the solstice gone'. The poem, by Agnes H. Bowie is inscribed to Wallace Bruce, the American Consul at Edinburgh and Theodore Napier of Magdala, President of the Scottish National Association of Victoria. It was published on the 24th June 1893, by C. Harvey of Stirling.
The Battle of Bannockburn was fought just outside of Stirling on the 23rd and 24th of June 1314, between Robert Bruce and Edward II. This was to end a long period of English occupation in Scotland's power centres. The battle itself is still at the centre of a great controversy. Bruce had 7,000 men who, although adept at guerrilla warfare, were no match for Edward's 20,000 battle-trained troops. Despite this, the Scots won an outright and resounding victory and Edward was almost taken prisoner.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'WHA wadna be in love / Wi' bonnie Maggie Lauder? / A Piper met her gaun to Fife, / And spier'd what was't they ca'd her? / Right scornfully she answered him, / Begone, ye hallan-shaker! / Jog on your gate, you blather skate, / My name is Maggie Lauder.' 'Hallanshaker' is Scots for a 'rascal' or 'beggar' and 'blather skate' or 'blatherskite' is a person who talks nonsense. This broadside was published by Simms and McIntyre of Donegall Street, Belfast, and includes an unusually large and detailed illustration.
Although this ballad bears no attribution, it is purported to be by Francis Sempill (c.1616-1682) of Beltrees, Renfrewshire. Francis was also responsible for such works as 'The Blythsome Bridal' and 'The Banishment of Povertie'. The reference to 'Habbie Simpson' in the final verse was in recognition of the popular ballad, 'The Life and Death of Habbie Simpson, Piper in Kilbarchan', which was written by Francis' father, Robert Sempill (c.1595-c.1665).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'When her nain shell to Edinburgh / she pe saw pony tings, / She many pony Lasses saw, / that flutter'd a wit wings, / Tat town apout teire shouters / as plack as ony flea, / An rattel a like Onion Skins, / a pra high pe pra put tea.'
This song, with its almost indecipherable lyrics, is a send up of Highlanders, their Highland English and their Gaelic phrasing. At this time a line of industrialisation was beginning to form and society was demarcating the north and south. Highlanders were represented as rural, 'simple' people whereas southern 'townies' were portrayed as a little more sophisticated. Many of the factual reports on broadsides, also contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, comment as to whether a person is a Gaelic or English speaker and normally his job is also mentioned.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'JOHN ANDERSON, my jo John; when we were lad and lass, / I never thoct that sic a thing wid ever come to pass, - / That we wid brawl an' fecht, John, an' deave our neighbours so, / Ye'll see your error yet, I think, John Anderson my jo'.' Below the title we are told that 'Copies of this Popular Reading can always be had the POET'S BOX, Overgate, Dundee'. 'Jo' means 'dear' and 'deave' means 'to worry'.
This light-hearted ballad, a parody on the work by Robert Burns, contains a waspish dialogue between a husband and his wife. The narrative perspective of the ballad shifts in each verse, from John Anderson to his unnamed wife, with the insults flying fast and furious. The writer lets the wife have the last word of the argument, where she ironically contrasts John?s insults with the ?sweet honeyed wirds? that he deployed when he was wooing her. In short, this ballad is a tongue in cheek account of how some relationships can turn stale after a while. Many humorous broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'John Davidson and Tibbie, his wife, / Sat toastin' their taes ae nicht, / When somethin startit in the fluir, / And blinkit by their sicht.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee, priced one penny.
This comic song takes the form of an argument between a man and a wife over whether it is a mouse or a rat that has just scampered past them. The argument grows increasingly fierce and animated until Tibbie hits Johnnie over the head with her soup spoon and chases him off to bed, throwing his bowl after him. In the morning it turns out that the object they both glimpsed was a child's ball. Marriage was a popular theme in ballads, sometimes being portrayed comically, as in this poem, sometimes romantically, and sometimes as a social and moral contract where both parties had clearly-defined roles.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Neighbours draw near and I'll tell you a tale, / To lend your attention I'm sure you won't fail, / Concerning a couple that lived near Armagh, / Their grand conversation would make a horse laugh.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
This humorous song deals with the subject of drinking tea. It is sent out as a warning to all husbands, advising them not to interfere with the tea-drinking habits of their wives. If they refuse to take heed of this warning, the song lays testament to what can happen. In another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, entitled 'A Lecture to the Ladies by a Disobliged Admirer of the Fair Sex', it is suggested that contemporary women have replaced the 'forbidden apple' with the habit of drinking tea.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now simmer decks the fields wi' flow'rs / The woods wi' leaves so green; / And little birds around their bow'rs / In harmony convene: / The cuckoo flies from tree to tree, / Whilst saft the zepyrs blaw; / But what are a' thae joys to me, / When Jockie's far awa.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
After an opening that lists the joys of nature, the first verse closes with its dominating theme - lovers who are apart from one another. The ballad continues to lament that, without her Jockie beside her, the heroine is unable to obtain any enjoyment from life. The content of the last verse sadly reveals that Jockie is away at sea because of a war, and will only return home when peace also returns. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Jock Tamson lived alang wi's mither, / Puir body she hadna ony ither, / An tae hear her speak o' her darling son, / Ye'd think nursing bairns was new begun.' Chorus: 'Ri tooral loo an a loo an a ladi, / Ri tiddy ta looral lay.' This broadside was priced at one penny and was published by the Poets Box, 190-192 Overgate, Dundee.
This light-hearted ballad tells the story of Jock Tamson and his nightly can of tripe. Spoilt by his dear mother, every evening after work Jock comes home to a can of freshly-prepared tripe. One night, while Jock is out drinking, his mother does not prepare the nightly meal. Instead, she washes some 'mutches' or 'caps' and places them in the unused can to soak overnight. Of course Jock comes home 'Wi a wee drap barley bree in his horn' looking for his tripe, 'For tripe is guid for killin the drink'. As the ballad continues, the events of this particular evening in the life of Jock Tamson humorously unfold. Jock Tamson was a name used to represent everyman.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'O, there ance liv'd a chap and they ca'd him Jock, / For mony a lang year he liv'd wi' his mother, / And by her it's he was adored like a king, / For he had neither sister nor brother.' Chorus: 'Right tooral looral, tooral looral, rant a rooral lay,'. In the title of the ballad 'mutch' refers to a 'cap'. This broadside was published in 1876 by the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow and could be purchased for one penny.
A different version of this song is also included in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection, under the title 'Jock Tamson's Tripe'. Whilst the humorous story of Jock and his rather unsavory meal essentially remains the same in both - he accidently eats his mother's mutch believing it to be tripe - the version seen here is three verses longer. Such variations were common and could, in this case, be attributed to regional variation, with one published in Glasgow and the other in Dundee.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ma name is Jock M'Whurtle, I'm a dorby tae ma trade, / But noo I've got a steadier job, I'm listed as a swade; / An' when at first I took the bob, O, I was green and raw, / But they vera sune made a man o' me in the gallant Forty Twa.' A 'dorby' is a stone-mason and a 'swade' is a 'soldier'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the broadside.
Written from the viewpoint of a stone-mason who has become a soldier, this ballad is dedicated to the man-making qualities of the Black Watch Regiment - also known as the 42nd Royal Highland Regiment. The new recruit talks about what life is like in the armed forces and opines that an army life is not as bad as is often made out. Certainly, Jock appears to be very proud of wearing the regimental tartan - a fact which suggests that this ballad was written after 1822, when the wearing of tartan was no longer perceived to be a threat to the British nation-state. A famously anti-Jacobite regiment, the Black Watch was raised in 1739, and was one of the six independent companies of the 'Highland Watch'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The sun had gane down o'er the lofty Benlomond, / And left the red clouds to preside o'er the scene, / While lanely I strayed, in a calm simmer gloaming, / To muse on sweet Jessy, the flower o' Dumblain. / How sweet is the brier, wi' its saft folding blossom, / An' sweet is the birk, wi' its mantle o' green, / Yet sweeter an' fairer, an' dear to my bosom, / Is lovely young Jessy, the flower o' Dumblain.'
'Dumblain' is an archaic spelling of Dunblane in Perthshire. 'Jessy the Flower of Dumblain' is not the only song to use that spelling of the town's name in its title: Sir Walter Scott's first novel 'Waverley' refers to a song entitled 'Bob of Dumblain'. 'Jessy . . .', is narrated by a man in praise of the woman he loves, and compares her favourably with all the most beautiful aspects of nature. It is quite a conventional romatic song, of a kind that was popular and frequently printed on broadsides.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Oh have you seen my Mary Ann? / Was one time all the go; / But now 'tis neither pot nor pan, / 'Tis Jessifield you know.' CHORUS: 'Oh may, then, ne'er to that poor house / A son of Adam go, / For puss can't live, nor e'en a mouse / In Jessifield you know.' The broadside carries no publication details.
'Jessifield' is a ballad about a harsh prison, narrated by an ex-prisoner. Although the ballad's place of origin is not given on the broadside, it is likely that it refers to a prison that stood on the current site of Her Majesty's Young Offender's Institution, Dumfries, one mile west of Dumfries town centre. A prison has stood on the site since at least 1852, and the current institution is still known locally as Jessiefield.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse of this ballad reads: 'FAR awa' tae bonnie Scotland / Hae my spirit taen its flight, / An' I saw my mither spinni' / In our Highland hame at nght. / I saw the kye abrowsing, / My faither at the plough, / And the grand auld hills aboon them / Wid I could see them now.' 'Ky' are 'cows'. This sheet was printed by W. Shepherd, Overgate, Dundee and priced at one penny. It was available to buy from the Poet's Box, which also had premises in the Overgate.
This song is referring to the Siege of Lucknow (1857), which was one of a series of sieges and battles collectively known as the Indian Mutiny of 1857-8. Disillusioned with British rule in India, large numbers of Indian soldiers, or 'sepoys', rose up in protest. Almost ninety days into the siege at the British Residency in Lucknow, Sir Henry Havelock and the forces under his command managed to break through the revolt and enter. Despite their efforts, the siege continued for a futher two months until the arrival of a Highland Regiment led by Sir Colin Campbell. It is claimed their arrival was heralded by the sound of bagpipes playing 'Auld Lang Syne'. Jessie Brown is purported to have been the wife of a British soldier stationed at Lucknow.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'O, the bright beaming queen o' night, / Shines in yon flow'ry vale'. The second ballad begins: 'As I went out a walking one morning in May, / I met a pretty Irish girl by chance upon the way'. The third ballad begins: 'Begone dull care, I prithee begone from me, / Begone dull care, for you and I shall never agree'. The sheet carries no publication details. It is illustrated with two woodcuts.
Of the three songs included here, by far the best known is 'Begone Dull Care'. The song was reprinted and anthologised many times and is still performed today. It has been traced back to at least the time of James VII and II (r.1685-89) but it is believed to be based on a French chanson that predates this. There are several songs known as 'Irish Molly O', and the one included on this sheet is not one of the better known versions.
This broadside was probably sold for a penny or a penny and a half. The inclusion of three ballads, and the woodcut illustrations, would probably have led to it being considered very good value at the time of its publication. Broadsides usually contained only one song or story and often featured little or no decoration.This light-hearted broadside begins: ''Twas at the Brighton Station, / In pursuit of my vocation, / I saw a tall and handsome girl / Behind the railway bar; / I heard some call her Jessie, / Perhaps 'twas Mister Pond, the lessee, / And her diamond eyes were twinkling / Just like the evening star.' This sheet is dated Saturday the 26th April, 1884, and was priced at one penny.
The accompanying air is said to be the 'Original', suggesting people were already familiar with this particular song and melody. The location of the railway station in 'Jessie at the Railway Bar' occasionally varies, with one version placing the events in Moorgate station rather than Brighton station. With no copyright laws in place at this time, publishers were able to reproduce and alter at will existing material without any legal repercussions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I met four chaps yon birks amang, / Wi' hinging lugs and faces lang, / And I speered at nei'bour Bauldy Strang, / Wha are yon we see; / Quo' he, ilk cream-faced pawky chiel / Thinks himsel' cunning as the diel / And here they've come awa to steal / Jenny's Bawbee.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated. A 'bawbee' was a 'halfpenny' and a 'birk' was 'a smart youth'.
The light-hearted verses contained in this broadside tell the story of the various men who try to woo Jenny and her bawbee. Written in a humorous manner, the story tells of a procession of upper-class men who all want to lay claim to Jenny?s Bawbee. However, Jenny is a canny lass and is not to be fooled by these fine and upstanding gentlemen who wish to marry her. Instead, Jenny falls for the very last man in this procession of suitors, Johnny. In contrast to his rivals, Johnny is poor in material terms but rich in other respects - hence the ballad is a comment on the nature of love.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad title continues: '(From Edinburgh Evening Courant of 17th June 1871). / Ane Ancient Ballade. / TUNE ? "There's nae luck aboot the hoose". The ballad begins: 'Oh, ha'e ye heard the gran' gran' news, / Ye drouthy working men?'
The lyrics to this piece refer to piping water into a city from St Mary's Loch. The most famous loch with this name, is the freshwater loch between Selkirk and Moffat, in the Scottish Borders. Unfortunately, there seems to be some disquiet over the quality of the water the homes are receiving. The 'Canongate' is mentioned, which suggests that the 'City' was Edinburgh. The tune to the song is very popular on broadsides and so may have been fairly well known at the time.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A gude New-year to ane and a', / And mony may ye see, / And during a' the years to come, / Oh happy may ye be. / and may ye ne'er ha'e cause to mourn, / To sigh or shed a tear - / To ane and a', baith great and sma', a hearty guid New-year.' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, was priced at one penny and was published on Saturday, 30th December 1865 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
The sentiments of this song are fairly typical of what might be expected even today at a Scottish New Year or Hogmanay party. Nostalgic memories, the passing of time, partings and reunions, and high hopes for the future are all elements in this song, just as they are in the more eloquent, most famous Hogmanay song of all, 'Auld Lang Syne'. In particular, the images of braes and trees in the third verse here appear to have been inspired directly by Burns's adaptation of 'Auld Lang Syne', the version most commonly sung today.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'LEt Royal GEORGE come over, / We'll have none but Hanover, / With Heart in Hand and Royal Band, / We'll welcome Him all over, / Of Royal Birth and Breeding, / And every Grace Exceeding, / Our Hearts will mourn till He Return, / Our Laws they lay a Bleeding.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'Sit thee down my Philis'.
George I of Great Britain and Ireland (reign: 1714-27) succeeded to the British throne after the death of Queen Anne. A German prince of the House of Hanover, George was supported by the Whig party, which was opposed to the restoration of the deposed Stuart family to the British throne. George's German mannerisms and percived greed were widely unpopular in Britain, however. This poem, although ostensibly laudatory, in fact seems to be mocking the King with over-extravagant, insincere praise.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'mind when I conrted my ain wifie Jean / Though often I gaed, she little was seen, / For her faither-the elder- like a' godly men, / Aye steekit his door about half-past ten.' There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
This light-hearted ballad revolves around the issue of a curfew during courtship. Jeanie's father has decided that 10.30 is a suitable deadline for her returning home. Not convinced by this, Jeanie makes a mockery of her father's rule. Her brilliant and mischievous idea of stopping the clock is eventually uncovered by the 'craw o' the cock', which signifies the morning. The familiar theme of courtship and, most importantly, its trials and tribulations would have proved popular reading amongst the broadside-buying public. Since storytelling began, people have always favoured stories that provide them with at least one character or scenario they can easily identify with.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I mind when I courted my ain wifie Jean / Tho' often I gaed, she seldom was seen'. It was published by Robert MacIntosh of 203 Gallowgate, Glasgow. There is no date attached.
This rather amusing tale would no doubt have had its audiences laughing by its conclusions. Jean and the narrator first meet in a pub, which they are informed will shut at 10:30. Rather than miss out on the opportunity to spend together, Jean stops the clock in the pub and nobody realises until the cocks crow! Unusually for broadside literature this tale has a happy end. The couple marry and are happy with their choice!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Attention, freens, and listen while I sing to you a song, / And tell ye what I think is richt, and what I think is wrang, / Owre a' the principal topics, I'll rin in succession quick, / And gie you my opinion o' the hale rick-ma-tick.' It was to be sung to the tune 'Whole Hog or None'. The broadside was priced at one penny and published by the Poet's Box, 79 London Street, Glasgow, on Saturday, 8th February, 1879. However, another date on the sheet, reading 'D.-2-11-1872', indicates that this is a reprint of an older ballad.
'The Hale Rick-Ma-Tick' provides a fascinating snapshot of the issues that concerned Glaswegians in 1872, when this poem was originally written. The narrator condemns the cruelty of the wars of German unification which ended in 1871, and warns against Russian military aggression. The marriage of Queen Victoria's daughter, Princess Louise, to the Scots Marquess of Lorne, is celebrated. On a more parochial level, the narrator laments the absence of a tribute to Burns among the new statues that have been erected in Glasgow's George Square.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This rather short ballad begins: 'On the Tombigby river, in a hut a born, / In a hut made of stalks of the tall yallow corn ; / It was there I met with my Julia so true, / And we went for a sail in my gum-tree canoe.' The sheet was published by William Shepherd of the Poet's Box, Dundee, and cost a penny.
The song is not particularly distinctive or unusual, but the sheet is very interesting for the additional information it gives about ordering songs from the Dundee Poet's Box. Apparently, for just 2d in stamps, they will send out 'ALMOST ANY SONG YOU WANT'. This is qualified by the assertion that if your song is not in stock, they will send a book containing 'nearly all the latest Songs and Ballads of the day'. Presumably then, for a further 2d you could have a song of your choosing!
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
On other sheets from the Dundee Poet's Box, the proprietor, William Shepherd, advertises the fact that locals may buy copies from street pedlars or by calling into the Overgate office.Verse 1: 'The storm rag'd o'er ilka hill, / The wind blew hard, but Tam was still; / far, far frae hame a grave doth fill, / The warmest hearted Tammy, O.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Gloomy Winter's now awa'. The sheet does not carry any publication details.
'Gardner Tammy' is a simple song about a young man who has died, apparently from a broken heart. Like many broadside ballads it was written to be sung to a pre-existing tune, described as being the tune of 'Gloomy Winter's now awa' by the Paisley weaver poet Robert Tannahill (1774-1810). However, this tune also predates Tannahill's song. It was arranged for 'Gloomy Winter's now awa' by Tannahill's regular arranger and composer R.A. Smith, but authorship of the melody has been attributed to both the violinist Nathaniel Gow (1766-1831) and Alexander Campbell (1764-1824).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'OH, gin a body meet a body / Canvassin' the wynde, / Wi' P____k R_____n before, / And Tories a' behind.' It was to be sung to the melody, 'Comin' through the rye'.
This satirical ballad is a parody of one of Robert Burns's most well-known and popular songs, 'Comin' thro' the rye'. As the title suggests, it is written in the style of a mock lamentation, in which 'Learmonth' decries the treatment he has received at the hands of the electorate. Lord Provost of Edinburgh (1832) and owner of the Dean Estate, John Learmonth stood for election as a Tory member of parliament for Edinburgh in the mid-nineteenth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A damsel possessed of great beauty, / She stood by her own father's gate, / The galleut gallent hussars were on duty, / To view them this maiden did wait; / Their horses were capering and prancing, / Their accoutrements shone like a star, / From the plains they were nearer advancing, / She espied her young gallant Hussar.' This song was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
This ballad is a fairly unremarkable story of a girl who is in love with a soldier named Edwin. The girl, Jane, has vowed to marry Edwin despite being kept locked away from him by her parents for a year. Edwin asks her to consider the risks of being a soldier's wife and of risking her parents' love, but Jane is determined and the two eventually marry. Sentimental, conventional love tales like this were quite common in broadside ballads.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Dark is the night---how dark---no light, no fire, / Cold on the hearth the last faint sparks expire, / Shiv'ring she watches by the cradle side, / For him who pledged her love last year a bride.' It was published by the Poet's Box, in December 1866. The place of publication has been erased but it is just possible to make out that the sheet came from 80 London Street, Glasgow.
It is believed that this song was written by a Dr Coates around 1841. The tune was written by Henry Russell (1812-1900), who also composed 'A Life on the Ocean Wave'. The song is very well-composed, its lyrics show thought and feeling for the poor woman who has to watch her child die while her husband gambles all their money away.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'Betrayed me, how can this be; / even by day light upon a day, / I met Prince Charles our Royal King, / and all the Grahames in their array; / They were well drest in Armour keen / upon the pleasant Banks of Tay / Before a King they might been seen / those gallant Grahames in their array.' This ballad was to be sung 'To its own proper tune; I will away, and I will not stay, &c'.
'The Gallant Grahames' celebrates the role of the Graham family in defending the Stewart succession in Britain during the seventeenth century. The hero of the poem is James Graham, 1st Marquis of Montrose, who fought for Charles I's forces against the English Cromwellian and Scottish Covenanting armies, and who was executed in 1650. After the restoration of Charles II in 1660, Montrose's corpse was exhumed and he was given a state funeral. The ballad can be dated to after these events.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This song's first verse runs: 'It's noo I am a sodger, and they ca' me Willie Brown, / I used to be a weaver lad, and lived in Maxweltown, / But noo I am enlisted, and to Perth I going awa' / To join that gallant regiment that's cau'd the gallant forty-twa.' It was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee. At the bottom of the sheet is a list of other songs published by them.
The 'forty-twa' is the 42nd Highland Regiment, more commonly known as the Black Watch. It was established in 'to be constant guard for securing the peace in the Highlands' and 'to watch upon the braes'. The name comes from the dark tartans it's members wear, which was originally to distinguish them from regular troops who wore red uniforms. The narrator here has left Dundee to join them.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Come awa, my gallant chield, / Ye canna come too early, / For Bruce o' Kennet's i' the field, / Keep back the Tory, Charlie.' The chorus begins: 'Come quickly hither, gang round & gather, / Try the canvassing fairly'. The song was to be sung to the tune, 'Wha'll be King but Charlie'.
As political broadsides often assumed a certain degree of knowledge amongst the readership, the subject matter can at times appear impenetrable to today's reader. The context of this highly-politicised ballad, however, is made clear by references to the corn laws, slavery, the church and free trade. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes many political ballads, a large number of which date from the nineteenth century - a time many claim was infected by 'reform fever'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'GIN ye meet a bonny Lassie, Gie her a Kiss and let her gae, / But if she be a dirty Hussy, / fy gar rub her o're wi' Strae.' The text preceding it reads: 'An Excellent SONG / INTITULED / Fy gar rub her o're wi Strae. Italian Canzone (of seven hundred Years standing) imitated in braid Scots'.
Although there is no music included on this sheet, the tune is named. It would have been well-known by its name, no doubt, amongst a large population of illiterate people who lived in the oral tradition. Two illustrative woodcuts have been included along the top of the sheet to improve the attraction of the piece. These woodcuts were expensive to produce and so were often of a generic topic so they could be reused.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'An Italian Canzone (of Seventeen hundred Years standing) imitated in braid Scots.' Verse 1 begins: 'In ye meet a bonny Lassie, / Gie her a Kiss and let her gae'. This sheet is initialled 'A.R.' and is completed by patterned woodcut embellishment.
This song was popular at the time and there are other sheets contained within the National Library of Scotland's collection which carry this ballad. Most of these appear to be illustrated, this one included, which would have further increased their market value. Ballad writers were fond of moral lessons and portraying the consequences of unwise actions. This ballad is no exception as it underlines the social consequences of licentious, and good, behaviour of women within their community.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As we journey on through life we meet with many ups and downs, / And often wish that we had ne'er been born; / When poverty o'ertakes us in our humble happy home, / Our best friends are apt to turn on us with scorn . . . ' A note below the title states that this ballad was 'Written and sung by Mr J. Macguire, with the greatest succese', and that 'This popular song can be had at 190 and 192 Overgate, Dundee'. The note further states that the ballad was sung to the air, 'English, Welsh and Scotch'.
This somewhat saturnine ballad ponders the nature of friendship, and arrives at some rather gloomy conclusions on the subject. The writer invents some dark episodes that show the concept of friendship at its most mercenary. Despite this, however, the writer concludes on a positive note, by stating that there are still some good people in the world, and that folk should have faith in a person until that individual behaves in a manner that betrays their confidence. A peculiar ballad, it could be argued that this song is a good illustration of Scottish 'canniness', and the accompanying attitude of not confiding your business in a stranger.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'ALL honest electors of this our fair town / Come listen to me, and I plainly will shew / How impudent LAWYER, with wig and with gown'. This was advertised as a new song which should be sung to the tune 'Lillibulero'.
The 'Learmonth' referred to in this text probably refers to John Learmonth, who was Lord Provost of Edinburgh in 1831. His most famous legacy is the Dean Bridge, which was built by Thomas Telford (1757-1834) in the same year. This bridge, a masterpiece in its own right, directly linked the roads to and from South Queensferry and the town. It was privately paid for by Learmonth, which improved the communication and transport route through his estate and enabled him to feu land for housing.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This ballad begins: 'All honest electors of this our fair town, / Come listen to me, and I plainly will shew / How an impudent Lawyer, with wig and with gown, / By a good man and true, shall soon be laid low'. It was advertised as a new song and was to be sung to the tune, 'Lillibulero'. A small illustration of a horse and cart crossing a bridge has been included at the top of the sheet.
This song is referring to John Learmonth who was the owner of the Dean Estate, and Lord Provost of Edinburgh in the early 1830s. He is perhaps best remembered for funding the construction of the Dean Bridge, which was built by Thomas Telford in 1831. Here, he is being hailed as an acceptable alternative to the corrupt power of 'an impudent Lawyer, with wig and with gown'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Below the title we are told that this broadside is 'An EPISTLE to the Umquhile John Cowper late Kirk-Treasurer's man of Edinburgh ; now his Ghaist studying Poetry at Oxford, for the Benefit of Ethert Curl'. The first line of the ballad reads, 'DEAR John, what ails ye now? ly still'.
This light-hearted ballad was written in response to an audacious ballad penned by John Couper of Oxford, in which he lambasted Scottish culture in general, and the bagpipes in particular. It appears that once Couper arrived in Oxford, he started writing about the inferior quality of Scottish poetry in comparison to English poetry. In this erudite reply, however, Pate Birnie, a famous Scottish musician, waspishly suggests that English writers such as Dryden, Stanhope and Rosecommon are little more than Grub Street hacks. Located in Milton Street, Moorfields, London, Grub Street was infamous as a place where shabby writers mixed with impoverished booksellers' hacks.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'There wis a laud was born in Kyle, / In winter cauld an' drear, / An' tho' that he is fair awa', / His memory's ever dear.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
Employing the natural imagery that Burns himself used in his Romantic poems, this threnody is dedicated to the immortal memory of Scotland?s national bard, who died in 1796. In effect, this ballad is a literary form of the 'immortal memory', as proclaimed on the 25th of January by Burns' societies the world over. A festival in the poet's honour was held at Alloway in 1844, and the ballad might well have been written specially to celebrate this event. Many broadside ballads dedicated to the memory of Robert Burns are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'THERE's nought but care on ev'ry han / In every hour that passes O'. The poem was written by Robert Burns, in 1784. This sheet was published by Pitts of 6 Great St Andrews Street, London. There is no date attached to the publication.
Burns wrote this version of 'Green Grow the Rashes, O' from a much older and more crude fragmentary ballad. This version is, however, considered to be imbued with tenderness and sentimentality. The message of the poem is that men who are driven by money and status may not be enjoying their lives to full. Instead, living on impulse and for the moment is the best way, especially in Calvinist Scotland. The poem ends with the sentiment that the most carefree time is spent among the lasses - a theme which was to characterise most of Burns's life.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.A note below the title states 'Address to Glasgow, by Charles St. Clair Johnstone, Late of Salton, East Lothian'. The ballad itself begins: 'HAIL! Glasgow, freedom's chosen seat! / Hail to thy great heart-stirring fete!' A further note mentions that the ballad should be sung to the air, 'Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled'. The sheet was published by Muir, Gowans, & Co, and cost sixpence.
This address, written in the style of a ballad, is dedicated to the citizens of Glasgow. Given the frequent references to freedom and the end of tyranny, it could be that this ballad was written to commemorate the effects of the Great Reform Act of 1832. Unfortunately, however, the writer does not mention why this gathering of citizens has occurred, which means that modern-day readers have to jigsaw together events of the time to try and arrive at a logical conclusion. Likewise, without an explanation regarding who Charles St. Clair Johnstone was, again, it is not possible to place this broadside in its proper historical context. As broadsides were ephemeral publications, the audience would not have required any detailed explanation of these events.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'YOU mourning sons of this afflicted nation, / Attend with pity to my sad appeal, / For loud and long is the lamentations, / That swells the shores of pure Granuale; / A nations tears on the sad occasion, / Proclaims the loss of the last and brave, / On sable garments of desolation, / Poor Granua weeps round O'Connell's grave.'
This is a ballad mourning the death of Daniel O' Connell, the nineteenth century Irish home-rule campaigner who died in 1847 on a pilgrimage to Rome. He had suffered ill-health after being  imprisoned by the British government on alleged conspiracy charges. In this ballad he is resurrected as an Irish hero, fit to be in the company of those great heroes of Irish mythology. 'Granua' was the daughter of the Irish mythic hero Finn McCool, but in this context Grauna's voice represents the folk voice of the Irish people as a whole, and 'Granuale' is used as an alternative, ancient name for Ireland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The chorus is printed first, it reads: 'Oh! this is now our ain house, / Cleanse it frae vermin 'a, / Lean'na in our ain house / One reptile in the wa'.' The first verse begins: 'Lang hae we sigh'd---lang hae we pray'd'. It is to be sung to the tune of 'This is no mine ain House'. The sheet was published by Caldwell, a family firm which operated out of Paisley from the late eighteenth to late nineteenth century. A woodcut, seemingly unrelated to the ballad, adorns the top of the sheet.
It is likely that this broadside was published around 1840, about the time when Queen Victoria (r. 1837-1901) married her German cousin, Prince Albert, a member of the Saxe-Coburg-Gotha family. This broadside suggests that among some ordinary people, who were suffering as a result of the Corn Laws and a general downturn in the economy, the pomp and ceremony of her wedding to this 'foreigner' caused outrage.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Of all the wives that plaque men's lives, / And keep them from their rest, / A gossiping wife, or a passionate wife, / Pray which do you think the best?' The chorus begins: 'A gossiping wife goes gadding about, / She's ever giving to roam'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
This song, albeit in a light-hearted way, manages to reduce women to predictable stereotypes and, as result, portrays them in a rather negative light. Asked to choose between a 'A gossiping wife, or a passionate wife', the author makes no hesistation in his choice of a passionate wife. The 'gossiping wife' is considered a nuisance who will mind everyone's business but her own!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'If you choose good news attention pay, and don't refuse / To what I say, my list I'll lay before you, if you choose, / As you will find, if you mind, there is plenty of variety, / Up and down in this town of good news.' This song was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee.
This song appears to be a pastiche of advertisements taken out by general stores to advertise their wares. The song is more sophisticated in form than the majority of songs contained in broadsides. The opening verse, quoted above, does not have a simple end-rhyme scheme but contains lots of internal rhymes, and sentences whose conventional structure has been subverted. The song also contains spoken interludes, and verses are divided into 'departments', as in a shop. It was clearly a song for public performance, perhaps in a music hall.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'A wealthy young squire in Tamworth we hear, / He courted a noblemans daughter so fair'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. A rather crude woodcut illustration of a bird, possibly a phoenix, has been included above the title.
This amusing and fast-paced ditty recounts the story of a wealthy girl's decision to take her marriage arrangements into her own hands. She was to be married to a squire but chose instead a farmer. She then 'arranged' a test which allowed the farmer to claim her as his own - very sneaky. No doubt this flight of fantasy would have kept an audience amused and many of the themes - class, marriage, shooting - would have been easily recognisable.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My taste is simple, I care not for wealth, / So long as I'm blest with a good share of health; / I'll tell you my wants and I hope you'll agree- / It takes very little to satisfy me.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box / 182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There were three gipsies in a gang, / They were both brisk and bonny, O, / They rode till they came to the Earl of Castle's house / And there they sung so sweetly, O'. A woodcut illustration of two young men standing before a gentleman has been included at the top of the sheet.
There are numerous versions and variations of this song in existence, including 'Johny Faa, or The Gypsie Laddie' and 'The Raggle Taggle Gypsy'. 'Johny Faa' appeared in Volume II of the 'Scots Musical Museum' (1788) and begins: 'The gypsies came to our Lord's yett'. Variations are common in works rooted in the oral tradition, whereby ballads and stories were passed down through the generations and often underwent changes in the telling.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: ''Tis I'm the gipsey king / Ha, ha, / And where is the king like me? / No troubles my dignities bring, / No other is half so free. / In my kingdom there is but one table, / All my subjects partake of my cheer, / We'd all drink Champagne, were we able, / as it is we have plenty of beer.'  This broadside was published by J. Scott of Pittenweem, Fife, and sold by J. Wood of  Edinburgh.
Gypsies are reputedly descended from the Romani, a nomadic people with origins in the Persian Gulf. According to gypsy law, the true gypsy King or  Queen is part of a blood lineage and is the leader of all the combined gypsy nations, but gypsy communities in separate countries and areas may also elect their own King or leader. Literature reveals a paradoxical attitude to gypsy culture in Great Britain. In some books, poems and songs, gypsies are regarded suspiciously and subjected to racial prejudice. However, in many other cases, the gypsy is celebrated as a romantic symbol of freedom, as in this ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My Love he was a brave Man / as ever Scotland bred, / Descended from a Highland Clan, / a Kater to his Trade.'
Very little is known about the figure 'Gilderoy', although he eventually became a literary motif for brave rascals. An incident was recorded on a broadside where a Perthshire highwayman, Patrick MacGregour, was hung in 1638. This information would fit the context of the lyrics but it is not absolutely certain. The lyrics blame 'English Laws' for the death of Gilderoy. This is a reference to the 'bloody code' instituted in England and adopted in Scotland, which were established specifically to protect property and possessions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is prefaced with text which reads: 'GEORGE CLERK'S LAST SPEECH and DYING WORDS on the Scaffold and at Pennycuick, with his farewell address to his beloved friend, Dundas, late Member for the City of Edinburgh; together with his EPITAPH.' The ballad begins: 'Dear, dear Dundas, I'm fairly gone, / What will be done, my friend? /Great grief will eat my flesh from bone, / And turn my enlarged mind.' The ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Miller of Drone'. The broadside carries no publication details.
This ballad is not a real paraphrase of a condemned man's last speech. Rather, it is the work of a Radical poet, imagining the last words of a Scottish nobleman, Sir George Clerk of Penicuik (1787-1867), before he takes his own life. Clerk did not commit suicide, but the idea for the poem probably came from the suicide of Lord Castlereagh, Tory government civil spokesman, who cut his own throat in 1822 after being partially blamed for the Peterloo Massacre in 1819 and the introduction of the repressive, anti-Radical 'Six Acts'. Clerk of Penicuik also had Tory sympathies, and the author of this broadside obviously wishes as horrific a fate upon him as that which befell Castlereagh.
Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville (1742-1811) is named in this poem as the late 'beloved friend' of Clerk. To Radicals and reformers, especially in Scotland, Dundas epitomised all that was unjust about the political system. Voted Member of Parliament for Edinburgh by an electorate that represented a fraction of the population, Dundas generally protected landed interests and the status quo, and held such huge political influence that he was nicknamed the 'Uncrowned King of Scotland'.This political ballad begins: 'THE Whigs are vap'ring through the toun, / Wi' Campbell, counsel of the croun - / As is a lunnun lawyer loon, / Could ere compete wi' Aytoun!' A note below the title states that this is a new song, and should be sung to the tune, 'The auld wife ayont the fire'. While there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Jamie Aytoun suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Probably written from a supporter of the Radical Party, this 'Age of Party' ballad refers to an electoral contest that took place in Edinburgh during the 1830s. In this contest, the advocate, Jemmy - or Jamie - Aytoun (1797-1881), stood against the London-based lawyer, Sir John Campbell, who represented the Whig Party. Another rival candidate referred to in the ballad is John Learmonth, who was Lord Provost of Edinburgh in 1832. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains numerous broadsides that report on political contests in Edinburgh during this period, many of which champion the cause of Jamie Aytoun.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Whigs are vap'ring through the toun, / Wi' Campbell, counsel o' the Croun- / As if a Lunnon lawyer loon / Could ere compete wi' Aytoun!' It was advertised as a new song and was to be sung to the tune, 'The auld wife ayont the fire'. A woodcut illustration of a rather dubious-looking character adorns the top of the sheet.
The 'Honest Aytoun' of the title is most likely James Aytoun (1797-1881), a prominent Radical who stood for election as member of parliament for Edinburgh in the mid-nineteenth century. 'Campbell', who is described here as 'a Lunnon lawyer loon', was the London-based lawyer, Sir John Campbell, who stood as the Whig candidate in the same election. In the final verse reference is also made to the Tory candidate, John Learmonth. A large number of broadsides were printed regarding these elections and the characters involved, many of which can now be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WE all the Drunkards of the Nation, / Issue Our Royal Proclamation / To you great King at Arms, the Lion, / (Since every Liedge thro' drought is dying;) / With all your bretheren, Heraulds too, / And Pursuevants, that follow you.'
As can be surmised from the surname, Barlycorn, this light-hearted ballad celebrates the manner in which alcohol oils the wheels of society. The character of Sir John Barlycorn is a personification of alcohol, and the ballad uses this symbol to show the heated response to the passing of the Malt Tax in 1725. Prime Minister Robert Walpole (1676-1745) imposed this hefty duty tax on Scottish ale, and this led to a number of riots. Such was the violence of one riot in Shawfield that the whole city of Glasgow had to pay a fine! Amusingly, the ballad-writer likens the effect of the tax to a drought, and imagines what a Scotland without alcohol would be like.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The wind in thundering gales did roar / As I left home in black October, / The hail and rain in torrents came, / And the world I thought was surely over.' There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
This ballad tells the story of a young Irishman who enlists in the army following an argument with his sweetheart. He soons finds himself being transported overseas to fight against the Russians in the Crimean War (1854-6). The conditions on board the boat are primitive and, upon landing, the 'hungry army' is ordered to 'make a brave stand'. Wounded at the Battle of Inkerman and treated in hosiptal, the young man ends up with a 'wood peg' for a leg.
Interestingly, it was only a few days after the Battle of Inkerman that Florence Nightingale arrived in Turkey, to tend to the wounded. Perhaps best remembered for her work during the Crimean War, in the military hospitals of Turkey, Florence Nightingale, along with a team of nurses, succeeded in vastly improving conditions whilst there and, as a direct result, dramatically reduced the mortality rate.This ballad begins: 'Good evening to ye, Glasgow boys, I'm glad to see ye well, / I'm consaytier myself tonight than any tongue can tell, / For I'm in a situation - oh, begor! a fancy job, / N'hye, an' whisper, I've a weekly wage of fifteen bob.'
The narrator of this ballad is an Irish foreman who has come to Glasgow to oversee the production of asphalt for road building. During the industrialisation of Scotland new and improved roads had to be built quickly, and Irish immigrants, who worked in many areas of Scottish industry, became particularly stereotyped as road and rail builders. 'Hot Ashfelt!' picks up on this stereotype, with the narrator describing the prejudice he has encountered from the Scottish police. The song ends in victory for the narrator, who entombs the policeman in hot asphalt, but it probably did little to dispell anti-Irish stereotypes.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'An Eton stripling, training for the law, / A dunce at syntax - but a dab at taw, / One happy Chirtmas laid upion the shelf, / His cap and gown and store of learned pelf'. 'Taw' is a game of marbles and 'pelf' means 'riches' or 'booty'. The publisher of the broadside was the Poet's Box, (probably Glasgow) but the town of publication has been obscured. The sheet was published on Saturday, 28th January 1871, and was priced at one penny.
'A Horse Chestnut and a Chestnut Horse' is a comic ballad satirising the philosophy of logic, and also, to an extent, satirising the English public school system. The author's point is that while the arguments of logic assume language to be fixed and rigid in meaning, in reality the same words can take on different meanings or implications according to the context they are placed in. He suggests this by making the Uncle in the ballad 'prove' to his cocky, Eton-educated nephew, that according to the arguments of logic, a horse chestnut and a chestnut horse are the same thing.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Hope farewel, adieu to all Pleasure, / No Torment so great as Love in despair: / Sylvia frowns, my Endeavours to please her, / And laughs at those pains she makes me to bear.' A generic woodcut has been included to add to the market appeal of the sheet. This broadside ballad should be sung to the tune of 'Hail great Sir, &c'. It was probably printed by John Reid in Edinburgh.
Many of these broadside ballads stem from a purely oral tradition and even when recorded at the time, were treated as ephemera. As a result not much information is available on either the lyrics or the melody, although they were probably well-known at the time. The use of the name Sylvia here, however, does reflect the growth in classical interest during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Always a popular Italian name and having direct Roman origins, it was used as a literary motif to convey sophisticated Italian connotations.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad (sung to the air, 'The King of the Cannibal Islands') begins: 'The Whigs are vapouring thro' the town, / That Frank, the Barber's coming down, / (The doited, petted, gabby loon) / To put out Jemmy Ayton.' It is decorated with a woodcut illustration, which incorporates the motto 'ENGLAND EXPECTS EVERY MAN TO DO HIS DUTY' - famously signalled by Nelson at the Battle of Trafalgar.
A note at the bottom of the broadside informs the reader that 'Frank, the Barber' refers to Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850), who is probably best remembered as founder of the magazine, the 'Edinburgh Review'. A staunch Whig, Jeffrey was appointed Lord Advocate in 1830, became an MP for Edinburgh in 1832 and was created a law lord in 1834. This song is partly a reaction to his decision to enter politics. James Ayton or Aytoun (1797-1881) was prominent in Edinburgh politics in the 1830s.
This broadside, along with many others, assumes a certain degree of knowledge amongst the readership of the day. Those mentioned within the verses were obviously familiar characters and the context was well known. As a result, at first glance, the subject matter can often appear a little obscure to a twenty-first century audience.This ballad begins: 'The Whigs are vaporing thro the town, / That Frank, the Barber's coming down, / (The doited, petted, grabby loon) / To put out Jemmy Ayton.' The text preceding it reads: 'A NEW REFORM SONG. / AIR- 'The King of the Cannibal Islands'.'
The Whig political party had touted an increase in the voting base if they came to power and, in 1830, they took over the reins of the British government. In 1831 the Reform Bill was rejected but eventually became law when tendered again in 1832. This led to a mild increase in the numbers of those who qualified to vote. During the rest of the 1830s further bills were passed on electoral reform and town council rights. 'Jemmy Ayton' may be one and the same as James Aytoun (1797-1831), advocate and manufacturer.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This 14-stanza song, to be sung to the tune of 'The drums and the Trumpets Commands Me from Shoar', begins: 'SCOTLAND Rejoyce, with a chearfull Smile / and Drink a full Flass to the Duke ARGYLE / He Feights for our Church and Cause to maintain, / The Clouds is despel'd he's in Scotland again.' No publication details are given.
The piece was composed on the occasion of the restoration to favour of John Campbell, 2nd Duke of Argyll (1680-1743). Campbell was a Scottish general, and was a strong supporter of the 1707 Act of Union between England and Scotland. He served in the War of the Spanish Succession (1701-14) and rose to be commander-in-chief in Spain in 1711. On his return to Scotland, heralded by this broadside, he actively supported the succession of George I (r. 1714-27). Campbell also commanded the army that put down the 1715 Jacobite rebellion.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Owre yon hills not far awa, / There dwells a lovely maiden, / As she strolled, ae simmer's night / For to view the soldiers paradin'.' Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee'.
This romantic ballad tells of the love between a maiden called Mary and a Highland soldier. Despite the warnings from her beloved concerning the many dangers that exist in marrying a soldier, Mary declares that her love is all conquering. Overwhelmed by her offer of true love, the soldier agrees to marry her. It is interesting that the maiden in this ballad is an active - rather than passive - character, and proposes to the soldier rather than vice-versa. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Whigs are vapouring thro the town, / That Frank, the Barber's * coming down, / (The doited, petted, gabby loon) / To put out Jemmy Ayton.' A note below the title states that this ballad is 'A NEW REFORM SONG', and should be sung to the air, 'The King of the Cannibal Islands'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the broadside. However, the reference to Francis Jeffrey (founder and editor of 'the Edinburgh Review') at the foot of the sheet, suggests that it was most likely published in the 1820s or 1830s.
This political broadside contains an attack on the Lord Advocate, Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850), who stood - as a Whig - for election to become MP for Edinburgh in 1832. Instead, the writer wants electors to vote for Jemmy (James) Ayton (1797-1881), whom he believes to be more honest than the other candidates. Francis Jeffrey was editor of 'The Edinburgh Review', so the writer makes great play of advising 'Frank' to stick to his day job of writing reviews. Unfortunately, there does not appear to be any information regarding who Jemmy Ayton was, thus highlighting the ephemeral nature of many broadsides. As Jeffrey was successful in his efforts to get elected, Jemmy Ayton probably suffered the curse of historical anonymity that often befalls losing candidates.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'There was a young squire in the north country we hear, / Was courting a Nobleman's daughter so dear, / Now, for to marry her, it was his intent, / All friends and relations did give their consent.'
The pitting of true love against social obligations or expectations was a common theme in ballads from the earliest times. In this ballad a young nobleman's daughter is expected to marry a squire of her own class, although she is secretly in love with a farmer from a lower social order. True love conquers here, mainly due to the girl's cunning in giving the farmer the golden glove that will determine who she is to marry. Such a manipulation of fate is an unusual twist to a familiar ballad topic.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The text preceeding this ballad begins: 'The "Castle of Montgomery" referred to in this beautiful effusion was that of Collsfield, near Tarbolton.' The ballad itself begins: 'Ye banks and braes and streams around / The Castle o' Montgomery'. A nicely executed woodcut representing a rather well-dressed Highland Mary decorates the top of the sheet.
'Highland Mary', or Mary Campbell, was one of Robert Burns's (1759-96) great loves, and he wrote this poem for her in 1792. The introduction to the poem, written, presumably, by the broadside publisher, is of interest because it puts it in context. It tells the tragic tale of how Burns and Mary were cruelly parted by her untimely death from typhus in 1786.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I hae wander'd mony a night in June / Along the bank's o' Clyde, / Beneath a bright and bonnie moon, / Wi' Mary by my side; / A summer was she to my e'e, / And to my heart a joy, / And weel she lo'ed to roam wi' me, / Her Highland Minstrel Boy, / I hae wander'd, &c.'
This ballad is narrated by the Highland minstrel boy of the title, and is a tribute to a girl called Mary. In the final verse it becomes apparent that the narrator is recently widowed, and he is remembering his late wife as she was when he first knew her many years before. The Highlander became a conventional romantic figure in many areas of the arts in the late-eighteenth and nineteenth centuries after the publication of James Macpherson's 'Ossian' poems and Sir Walter Scott's 'Waverley' novels. This song made its way to Australia where it became 'Her Ireland minstrel boy'. It is better known under the titles of 'Banks o' Clyde' or 'Bonnie Moon'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Tonald Bayn, her nane dear Shoy, / Maks a' Folk sad save Robin Roy / Who kend him sin he was a Boy, / her nane sell Swons, / To think he'd hangs like Gilderoy, by Loulan Louns.'  The lament is 'For the Death of Donald Bayn, alias M'evan Vanifranck, who was Execute in the Grass Market of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 9th Day of January 1723' and added in pencil: ['For Robbery he dyed denying most of the crimes he was condemned for'].
This ballad contains transcriptions of Highland pronounciation and phraseology such as 'her nane sels', meaning 'his', 'Sh' substituted for a soft 'G', and 'T' substituted for initial 'D', as in 'Shentleman' and 'Tonald'. Such renderings of Highland English would later become more familiar to the general public through the bestselling novels of Sir Walter Scott. The story in this ballad is also the sort that inspired Scott, featuring a clansman vowing revenge against the enemies of his dead companion.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Lawland Lads think they are fine, / But O they're vain and idly gawdy, / How much unlike that graceful Mien, / and manly Looks of my Highland Laddie: / O my bonny Highland Laddie, / my handsome smiling Highland Laddie / may Heav'n still guard and love reward, / the Lawland Lass and her Highland Laddie.' The text below the title reads 'Set by Mar Arne and Sung by Mt Mattocks at the Theatre RL. In Drury Lane'.
The music for this ballad was arranged by Thomas Augustine Arne (1710-1778), composer of 'Rule Britannia', who arranged other ballads in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This dates the ballad to some time in the mid-eighteenth century. The fact that the song was performed at the prestigious Theatre Royal in Drury Lane reflects a burgeoning English interest in Scottish Highland culture that was to increase dramtically with the success of Sir Walter Scott's 'Waverley' novels after 1814.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I Must or'e Lands and Seas repass, / Face Summers Suns and Winters glass, / Rude Hurry Canes I must endure, / Never wake, nor Sleep, nor rest Secure, / Where Savage Moors makes their abode / And Humane Foot have never trode; / There I perhaps whole years must stay / While she I love is far away.' The ballad was to be sung 'To its Own Proper Tune'.
This ballad is narrated by a traveller who is pledging love to his sweetheart at home, regardless of what might befall him on his voyages. In the sixth of eight verses, the tone of the poem changes briefly, as the narrator expresses his fear that his sweetheart might fall out of love with him, before trying to dismiss such thoughts in verse seven. This recalls renaissance 'courtly love' poetry, where extravagant tributes to the object of desire were often alternated with professions of unworthiness from the narrator.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I came in by Auchendown, / A little wee bit frae the town, / Unto the Highlands I was bound / To view the Haughs of Crumdel.' The publisher and date of publication are unknown, but the number 79 in the bottom right corner suggests it is part of a sequence. A 'haugh' is a low-lying piece of ground.
The battle, fought in 1690 upon the plains of Cromdale in Strathspey, resulted in the army of 1,500 Jacobites, under General Buchan, being defeated by Sir Thomas Livingstone's Hanoverian forces. Strangely, the hero of this song, Montrose, was not even present at the battle!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'The Tories they have had their day / The lang-tongued Whigs have had their say'. The chorus begins: 'Here's a Health to Aytoun, / Health and wealth to Aytoun'. A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the tune 'Carle an' the King Come'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Jamie Aytoun suggests that it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Illustrated with a woodcut of three cronies drinking a toast, this 'Age of Party' political pamphlet is dedicated to the principles of James Aytoun (1797-1881). During the 1830s, Aytoun was a member of the Radical Party who unsuccessfully stood for election in Edinburgh. The writer criticises the Whigs and Tories for being corrupt, and proclaims that 'honest Aytoun' is the solution to the electorate's woes. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides that report on political contests in Edinburgh during the 1830s, many of which refer to Aytoun.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Here's a health to Aytoun, / Health and wealth to Aytoun; / He's the man we understan'- / Here's success to Aytoun!' The text preceding this reads: 'A New Song. / TUNE. - Carle an' the King come.' There is a woodcut illustration of two men sitting beside a huge alcohol barrel in a cellar.
The tune 'Carle an' the King Came' was made famous by Robert Burns, who published it in his folksong collection entitled 'Scots Musical Museum'. The tune itself, however, was much older but had no history attached to it as it was very much embedded in the oral tradition. There are at least two Aytouns who might be the character mentioned here. William Edmonstoune Aytoun (1813-65), the Scottish poet who eventually worked for the University of Edinburgh, was renowned for his Tory views and especially for his support of the party during the Anti-Corn-Law struggle. Another possibility is that it refers to the Radical politician, James Aytoun, (1797-1881) who was active in Edinburgh at this time.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'Ye comrades and companions, and all ye females dear, / To my sad lamentations, I pray you lend an ear ; / There was once I lo'ed a bonnie lass, I lo'ed her as my life, / And it was my whole intention to make her my wedded wife.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee.
The Poet's Box of Dundee published many broadside ballads such as this, as can be seen from the list at the bottom of this sheet. Dundee locals could buy copies from street pedlars or by calling into the Poet's Box. For those living further afield, the company would also sent sheets by post, in return for stamps, which they would presumably use in their everyday business, and stamps covering the cost of postage.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The harp that once through Tara's hall / The sound of music shed, / Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls, / As if that soul were fled.' It was published in 1875, by the Poet's Box of 80 London Street, Glasgow. The address has been partially obscured - possibly the publisher went into liquidation or moved premises.
Although he is not credited here, this ballad was written by the Irish barrister and poet, Thomas Moore (1779-1852). Tara is the mysterious hilltop site in Co. Meath that was once home to the Irish high kings. The piece was written while Ireland was under English rule, and Moore's Tara symbolises the seat of Irish government and the rule of Ireland. The harp, Ireland's traditional instrument, symbolises Irish culture and spirit.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'WHEN Rosie was faithful, how happy was I, / Still gladsome as simmer the time glided by, / I play'd my harp cheery, while fondly I sang, / Of the charms of my Rosie the winter nights lang; / But now I'm as wofu' as wofu' can be, / Come simmer, come winter, tis a' ane to me; / For the dark gloom of falsehood sae clouds my sad soul, / That cheerless for ay is the Harper o' Mull.' The sheet carries no publication details.
'The Harper o' Mull' was written by Robert Tannahill (1774-1810), a Paisley weaver and accomplished songwriter. Unlike most of Tannahill's work, which was inspired by the Renfrewshire countryside, the Harper o' Mull was based on a Highland tale that Tannahill had read. The story concerns a Mull man who burns his beloved harp to give warmth to his young wife, who has fallen ill on a journey. The wife recovers but runs away with another man, leaving the Harper of Mull to rue his hasty actions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'WHEN Scotia tun'd her rustic lyre, / And bad her sons to fame aspire, / To touch wi' nature's glowan fire, / The harp of Caledonia.' This sheet was published by Carse of 36 Prince's Street, Glasgow.
This ballad is a tribute to Robert Burns (1759-96). It tells a fantastical story of a young girl walking by the 'banks and braes o' bonnie Doon' (one of a number of references to Burns's poems throughout the piece), who gives the bard her harp so that he may better compose tunes to fit his lyrics.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'You will come no more gentle Annie, / Like a flower thy spirit did depart'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow (1852-59). There is a woodcut illustration of a well-dressed, country girl balancing two baskets included at the top.
Gentle Annie was written by Stephen Foster (1826-64), in 1856, and was inspired by his grandmother, Annie Pratt McGinnis Hart. This is now considered to be one of Foster's six finest songs. Born in Lawerenceville, Pennsylvania, his politically and financially successful large family objected to his interest in music. Once his fame had spread, however, and the money began rolling in, his family were won over!
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Before Apollo had a lute / More than a hundred year, / Macgregor played on his own pipes / His Highland clan to cheer.' A note below the title states that 'This Popular Reading can always be had at the Poet's Box'. Unfortunately, it is not specified which particular Poet's Box in Scotland published this sheet and also no date of publication has been included. The list of other songs that are available for purchase from the Poet's Box makes for interesting reading, and reveals much about the type of content that was often included in broadsides.
Written in a lofty and erudite manner, this light-hearted ballad celebrates the achievements of the MacGregor Clan. By comparing some legendary MacGregors to famous characters from literature such as Apollo, Ajax, Achilles and Samson, the writer draws attention to the musical and martial qualities possessed by members of the clan. Indeed, the ballad reads much like a eulogy. Interestingly, the writer also incorporates the Ossian stories into his tribute, and weaves together biblical tales, Celtic myths and classical myths into the one, overall pattern. The outlaw, Rob Roy MacGregor (1671-1734), was probably the most famous member of the MacGregor clan, and a famous statue of him can be found in Stirling.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Respectit Freen's, baith great an' sma', / In hamely rhyme we greet ye a', / Sincerely hopin' Sixty-twa, / Whan dead an' gane, / May leave within ilk hoose an' ha' / Nae grief or pain.' The authorship of the poem is credited to 'one of themselves', 'themselves' being a reference to the 'Deliverers' of the title. The sheet carries no publication details.
A 'hansel' or 'handsel' is a gift given to celebrate the start of something new. It can also refer to the first instalment of a payment. In Scotland, the first Monday after New Year's Day was traditionally known as 'Hansel Monday' or 'Handsel Monday', and gifts were given at this time. The poem shown on this broadside was one apparently written by one of the Midlothian Advertiser's paper-boys, and was presumably delivered, along with the newspaper, on Hansel Monday.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A Noble Roman was the Root / From which Montgomerie came, / Who brought his Legion from the Wars, / And settled the same, / Upon an Hill 'twixt Rome and Spain / Gomericus by Name; / From which he and his Off-spring do / Their Sir-name still retain.' The ballad was to be sung 'To its own Proper Tune'.
In a short introduction, this ballad is described as 'Giving an account of their Original, and of Rodger Earl of Montgomerie, Salsberry and Arundale, General to William the Conqueror his coming to England, with several parts of History concerning them, ending with an Advice to the Chief of the CLAN.' The poem describes how Philip Montgomerie, having seen his English lands forfeited, came to Scotland and was awarded land by the King of Scotland, thus establishing the Montgomerie family north of the border.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now, often I'm asked why I'm always so sad / When jolly King Christmas is near, / And why I prefer the country to town / At this happy time of the year? / Just listen, I'll tell you, 'twas at Christmas I fell / In love with my dear little Lou, / In a dear country glade when together we strayed / Gathering the sweet mistletoe.' A note under the title informs the readers that the ballad was 'Sung with immense success by TOM BOWLING'.
At the bottom of this particular broadside an advertisement listing a number of other songs to be had at the Poet's Box is included. Broadsides featuring songs and ballads were always extremely popular with the public. Usually bought for one penny, the song could be memorised and passed on to countless others. Although the literacy rate at this time was extremely low, songs could easily be memorised upon hearing.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'I'm the lad that's free and easy, / Whereso'er I chance to be: / I'll do my best I'll try to please ye, / If you will but list to me.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a carefree young man throwing a stick for a dog.
The free and easy lad of this song appears to be very philosophical, living his life according to a very simple yet profound belief: 'I care for all, yet care for no man, / Those who mean well should not fear, / I like a man and love a woman, / What else makes this life so dear'. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Big Johnnie Shaw a dacent chap / He wants tae marry me, / Although he's but a labouring chield / Wi forteen bob you see / Im raither fond o Johnnie, / For he's got such winning ways / As when I speak o taken him / My dear auld mither says.' This ballad was published at 190 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box. Under the title it is printed, 'Sung with great Success throught all the princpal Concerts in the City by J. OATES'
Romantic ballads that prized true love above wealth were quite common in Scotland. 'Fourteen Bob' is a satirical twist on that theme. It is narrated by a woman who plans to marry her Johnnie against her mother's advice and despite the fact he only earns 'fourteen bob'. The final four lines undercut the apparently noble message of the balld by exposing Johnnie's chavinism and the narrator's naivety: 'But Johnnie says what ere we get / Well get it nice and clean, / Its he'll get all the beef tae chew / And ah can lick the banes.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The introductory text reads: 'This is supposed to be one of Shields' productions, and the Poet in offering it to the public has every confidence that it will be a tangible treat ; the Poet is certain that it is one of the finest effusions extant, and from his long experience, he would invite all lovers of song and music to come and judge for themselves by procuring copies . . .' The first line of the song reads: 'I'll seek a four-leaved shamrock'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Glasgow.
It is not clear who Shields is, but this piece was in fact written by the Irish songwriter, painter and novelist, Samuel Lover (1797-1868). The proprietor of the Glasgow Poet's Box, Matthew Leitch, was well-known for his flamboyant sales techniques, which often led to slight embellishments of the truth! With no copyright law in place at this time, publishers were free to reproduce existing works without fear of prosecution.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This long ballad, telling the tale of a game between the Swifts and the Macalvenny Wallopers, begins: 'A football match last Saturday I went to see ; / To have some fun was exactly what I meant, you see, / So off I goes like a sporting man so dutiful, / To see this game, which I reckoned would be beautiful'. The song was written by James Currns (probably James Curran, a Glasgow song-writer and parodist), and published by the Poet's Box of Dundee. It was sold for a penny.
Football was rapidly increasing in popularity at the time of this broadside's publication. The 1850 Factory Act was instrumental in this because it established the right for time off for industrial workers and Saturday quickly became recognised as free time. Also, a cheaper and more efficient rail network made travelling to and from games much easier, and leagues were formed as a result. The Scottish Football Association was established in 1872.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This crime ballad begins: 'I find I was a Fool to mock the Laws, / My Notes are finely chang'd for Hangie's Taas.'
Currency was and indeed still is the property of the Crown in the United Kingdom, therefore forgery or the defacing of currency is an offence against the Crown. It was normal for moral lessons to be conveyed through fictitious, shock stories. Here, however, a hand-written note claims that Currie was scourged through town, had his ear nailed to the Tron and was then banished. This suggests that John Currie and his crime were real. Hangie was the nickname for the hangman.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Her vows of love / They seem'd to prove, / Most faithful unto me, / But now I've found / Which doth me wound / In them no constancy.'
Broadsides were often used as vehicles for didactic or moral messages. The sheets reached a wide and varied audience as they were cheap and readily available. This ballad laments on inconstancy and betrayal. Broadsides are often considered to be the forerunners of newspapers but, given the drama and hyperbole used here, they may also have been the earlier equivalent of today's Oprah or Jerry Springer television-counselling shows!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: ''Tis now some forty years ago, / A man was in his prime; / And forty years ago to him / His heart was happy, light and free, / Was then a merry time / But time has brought him low; / Still he can with pleasure speak / Of Forty Years ago.' The publication details are printed on this broadside, but a later hand has obscured them.
'Forty Years Ago' is a simple ballad lamenting the lost youth of an old man. The narrative begins in the third person, but in the last verse it switches to the first person and we realise that the narrator has been speaking of himself all along. This is quite a common technique in poetry and fiction. It makes the work suddenly more personal, and should elict greater sympathy for, and empathy with, the narrator.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Once I was happy, but now I'm forlorn, / Like an old coat that is tattered and torn, / Left on this wide world to fret and to mourn, / Betrayed by a maid in her teens. / The girl that I loved she was handsome, / I tried all I knew her to please, / But I could not please her one quarter so well / As that man upon the trapeze.' Priced at one penny, this broadside could be purchased from the Poet's Box, Glasgow. It is dated 'Saturday, July 11, 1874'.
Also known as 'Man on the Flying Trapeze', this light-hearted song is a young man's lament over the betrayal of his sweetheart as she disappears into the arms of a trapeze artist. Captivated by his physique and expertise on the trapeze, 'His movements were graceful, all girls he could please', the young woman elopes with him one night. The song ends with the young man spying 'A bill in red letters, which did my heart gall, / That she was appearing with him.' It has been suggested that this song was written about the trapeze artist, Jules Leotard, who in the 1860s performed in London wearing the costume that now bears his name.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'It's yon bonny banks, and yon bonny braes, / Where sun shines bright and bonny'. It was published by Robert MacIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow. Above the title a woodcut of clipper ship has been included.
Flora MacDonald, born on South Uist in 1722, is now the most famous heroine of the Jacobite cause and one of its most romantic stories. Bonnie Prince Charlie was fleeing Scotland after his Culloden defeat. When the situation became perilous on the Isle of Skye, Flora was persuaded to participate in her foster-father, Clanranald's, plan to help Charles' escape. After this she was tracked and was imprisoned by the Hanoverians and she spent a year in the tower of London. She was eventually released in 1747 and died in 1790.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'It's when I came to England some pleasure for to find, / Where I espied a damsel most pleasing to my mind, / Her rosy cheeks and rolling eyes like arrows pierced my breast / And they called her lovely Flora, the lily of the west.' This song was published at 192 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box.
The practice of performing songs for public entertainment predated printing, and knowledge of many ballads was passed on from performer to performer or handed down though families. Inevitably different versions of one story would evolve, and even when ballads began to be collected and printed several differing sets of words might be found accompanying the same tune or title. 'Flora the Lily of the West' is one such ballad. This appears to be an English lyric, but versions set in Ireland and America are also extant.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'I'm a factory gal as you may see, / You'd like to know perhaps who I be; / If you will listen to my rhyme, / I'll tell you now all in good time. / My mother lives down pot alley, / The boys all call me charming Sally; / Be their delight I always shall, / While I'm a flare-up factory gal.'
The cheerful tone of the narrator of this ballad is at odds with our modern perceptions of the society she describes. The 'factory girl' is just that - a child labourer rather than a young woman. The employment of children in factories was an integral part of Britain's dramatic industrial expansion in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as they were a cheap, easily-managed workforce. Despite some strong opposition to child labour, until 1891 children as young as nine could be working almost sixty hours per week, often in unsafe and unhealthy conditions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My Mither was wae, for my faither was deed, / An' they threatened to tak' oor auld hoose o'er oor heid: / Her earnings grew scanty, and meal had got dear; / The auldest o' five, I could whiles see a tear'. 'Wae' is Scots for 'woeful', 'scanty' means 'meagre' and 'whiles' means 'sometimes'.
This well-composed ballad contains many elements which mark it out as typical of the broadside folk song. Firstly, its focus is very much on hardship and poverty in a rural setting. The narrator, the oldest of five children, realises that he must go out to work if the family is to survive. A second theme, very popular in these ballads, is the boy's love for his mother. The final subject, typical at a time when many Scots were leaving for pastures new, is emigration.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I am, ye see, a weaver, freens, / Jist cam' frae Vinegar Hill, / Tae sing aboot a son o' mine's / That's nicknamed Fitba Wull'. It was published by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee. It probably cost one penny.
This ballad is unusual because it contains not only standard verses, which are to be sung to the tune of 'Oor Jock's a handy chappie', but it also includes large portions of narrative which are to be spoken.  It demands a participatory audience, and it is easy to imagine the narrator getting quite animated reciting the text, and a crowd of listeners joining in for the chorus.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'IN Greenock town, I've heard it said, / A man there lived, who to his trade / A fisher was, a rummy blade, / His freens they cawed him Dunkey, O.'
This ballad tells the story of the fisherman, Dunkey, and his brother, the sailor, who returns from distant shores with a monkey. Neglecting to warn his brother of the monkey's existence, the young sailor travels to Glasgow to visit a sweetheart, leaving the monkey behind in Dunkey's house. The ballad ends with Dunkey and some fellow fisherman hanging the poor monkey. Although humorous in tone, this ballad ends on a rather grisly note - only adding to its appeal amongst audiences! Upon its publication, strains of this ballad would probably have been heard issuing forth from the alehouses and taverns of Greenock and its environs.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Down in the Country / A poor girl did wander, / Down in the Country / A poor girl did roam, / She belongs to this nation, / She has lost each dear relation, / She's a poor little Fisherman's girl, / Whose friends are dead and gone.'
There are many ballads held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which are on the topic of sailors, the sea and their families. This must have been a popular theme amongst many of Scotland's citizens, given the country's reliance on fishing, trade and the military for vocations. Although this poem is quite long, in itself an attractive marketing ploy, it is relatively unusual for a poem, with such a generic context, to be unaccompanied by a woodcut.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'We sailed from the Downs in a ship called the Lion, / With fifty brass guns our crew could rely on; / Larboard and starboard we had a bold crew / Which no equal number of foes could subgue.' It was priced one penny and published by the Poet's Box, 190 and 192 Overgate, Dundee.
This comic ballad, narrated by a sailor on a ship 'bound for the west', betrays some of the prejudices of its time. Among the crew are two men from minority groups, a Quaker, and an Irishman. Both are figures of ridicule. The Quaker, one of a conservative protestant sect founded in 1647, is mocked for his pious unwillingness to join battle with the French but is redeemed when his life is imperilled and he instinctively begins to fight. The Irishman is satirised more savagely and portrayed as cowardly and stupid. Anti-Irish polemic was common in Britain in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A sailor and his lass / Sat o'er their parting glass, / For the tar had volunteered to go to sea, / At the sailing signal flying, / The lovely lass was sighing, / And said:- "I fear you never will come back to me.' The text preceding it reads: 'A song for the fleet called Jack and the Bear-skin / AIR - "The deeds of Napoleon".'
The purpose of this song may have been two-fold. Firstly, to reassure members of the audience who were living apart from loved ones that those absent were safe and having a good time. Secondly, to glamorise and immortalise the act of leaving loved ones and travelling for those in the audience who fitted this work pattern. Although this is mere speculation, the narrative is a good entertaining story which moves at a varied and fast pace to keep the audience entertained.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Noo, I'll sing ye a song if ye listen, / As the time it does glide fast awa'; / It was composed by me, and the title will be / "It's no' the clean tattie ava."' Below the title we are told that 'Copies can always be had at the Poets Box, 190 Overgate, Dundee'. 'Ava' means 'at all'.
This ballad is an interesting piece of social history, for the way in which it supports a railway strike that took place during the early days of the railways. It is likely that the phrase, 'It's No' The Clean Tattie Ava', is a colloquial expression meaning 'something is not fair at all'. Given that this railway strike probably took place some time in the 1840s, the obscure expression might well be an anti-establishment reference to the potato famines that caused so much suffering in Ireland and Scotland. Certainly, the ballad sounds like a trade union song, although the peculiar last verse appears rather incongruous.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Memory carries my fancy to-day, / Back to a scene which has long passed away; / There stands a sailor in garments of blue, / Bidding a poor weeping widow adieu.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate Dundee. / Sung with great success by Sister Lyster'.
Poet's Box publications tend to be completely anonymous, but many of the sheets distributed by the Dundee Box give quite detailed information about who printed, wrote or performed them. Unfortunately, as with the case of Sister Lyster, no further information is really known about the performers or their careers. This style of oral group entertainment was open to all, and so formal records were rarely kept.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There's a lovely little madin that I ever shall adore, / In Italy, that bright and sunny land, / My life would be a pleasure and I would ask for nothing more.' It was published and distributed by the Poet's Box of 182 Overgate, Dundee.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'The sun was fair the clouds advanced, / When a convict came to the Isle of France, / Around his leg he wore a ring and chain, / And his country was of the Shamrock green.'
The second ballad begins: 'Come all you sons of Erin, / Who love your native soil ; / I claim your kind attention, / Just for a little while.'
Although these songs appear to be unrelated they are in fact both about Ireland and the exploits of Irishmen. The first ballad, also known by the titles 'The shamrock green' and 'The convict's song', refers to the penal colony established on the island of Mauritius. The second was written to encourage political agitation over the question of home rule for Ireland.This political ballad begins: 'WAKE! Scotland, wake! from thy long sleep, / Thy foes with stealthy footsteps creep, / And try to rob thee of thy name, / The dowry of a deathless fame, / Which Wallace, Bruce, and Douglas true, / Left as a heritage to you.' There are no publication details for this sheet.
Illustrated with a woodcut of a castle flying the Lion Rampant flag, this patriotic ballad makes an emotional appeal for Scottish Home Rule. The author tries to win the audience's sympathy, by lining up an impressive pageant of heroes from Scotland's glorious past. Thus, the martial glories of Robert the Bruce (1274-1329) and William Wallace (c. 1274-1305) are contrasted with the machinations of Westminster politicians such as Sir William Gladstone (1809-98) and Viscount John Morley (1823-96). The ballad is very similar in subject matter to Robert Burns' (1759-96) famous song, 'Scots Wha Hae'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As I walked out one evening down by the river side, / I gazed around me and an Irish girl I spied'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow (1860-90). The top of the sheet carries a woodcut of a young, simply dressed girl carrying a bird cage and looking at an odd looking cat.
This ballad deals with the popular broadside theme of the pain of love and the misbehaviour of lovers. There is also an odd reference at the end where the reader is supposed to wish themselves to the green pastures of Manchester. Lindsay published many broadsides on an Irish theme, suggesting that one of his authors, or even he himself, had Irish connections.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts. The woodcut used here can also be found on another Lindsay broadside entitled 'Mary's Dream'.The first ballad begins: 'This world is all a bubble, no matter where we go, / There's nothing here but trouble, hardships, toil, and woe'.
The second ballad begins: 'Oh, nane, I trow on a' the earth, / Was happier than me, / When in my wee breek pouch / I got my first bawbee'. Published by James Kay of Glasgow, this sheet would have cost a penny to buy and is number 24 in a sequence. It carries a jolly looking woodcut of an elderly man dancing around with his stick.
Both these songs' topics have Ireland in common and may have been published together to appeal to the Irish section of Glasgow's population. Both songs, however, feature situations and emotions which would no doubt have been recognisable to most people and also had a wider appeal.Verse 1 begins: 'You gallant sons of Erin's isle, of high and low degree, / Who are fighting in the American states to put down slavery'.
This rather short, but detailed, text celebrates the Irish-American soldiers who fought in the American Civil War (1861-65). Many of the Irish emigrants who gained access to America settled in the area around New York, and it was here that the Irish Brigade was raised at the onset of civil war. Under the leadership of General Thomas Francis Meagher, the Irish Brigade went on to fight with the Union Army, and as a result, enjoyed sharing in their success.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins (to the tune of 'Laird o' Cockpen'): 'Oh! Hae ye heard o' an unprincipled squad / That got into out council - Whig, Tory and Rad. / I'm wae for the lads; oh! My heart it is sair / To see some wise claimants sae shameless and bair!'
Probably written some time between 1830 and 1860, this broadside ballad is a vitriolic attack on all politicians, regardless of party. As the names of the politicians are blanked out by the anonymous writer, the ballad resembles a masque - indeed, the style, tone and subject matter of the ballad is similar to 'The Masque of Anarchy', by P.B. Shelley. The ballad cuts its way through this procession of politicians, highlighting their many flaws and comparing them to chimpanzees and baboons.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is sung to the tune of 'Auld Langsyne' and begins: 'THERE'S mony a chield at us that jeers, / That coudna tell you why; / But ay a smirk his visage wears, / Gin ane o' us gae by.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
Through their understanding and appreciation of the more impressive aspects of classical civilisation, Antiquarians played an integral part in the formation of the Scottish Enlightenment of the eighteenth century. This ballad has been written in praise of their work, and in each verse the Antiquarians pit themselves against the various noble professions. Concerned that they might at first appear insignificant, the Antiquarians defend themselves admirably by highlighting the intrinsic nature of their work and the vital role it plays in all facets of life.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: IN Heriot's-Walks as I was Roving, / I met my Love, she gayly drest, / Frown'd when I talkt to her of Loving / And bid me set my Heart at rest. / How! set my Heart at rest? Dear Angel, / O tell me quickly, Fair one do? / You may go Rove on, and Range Still, / For never shall Man my Heart Subdue.' This ballad was composed by 'Mr Ramondon, Senior', to be sung 'To it's own Proper Tune'.  It was published and sold by John Reid of Pearson's Close, off the High Street in Edinburgh, in 1715.
This ballad, in common with many published in the eighteenth century, focuses on the morality of affairs outside wedlock. Typically in these ballads, men are portrayed as being in thrall to their impulses: women are expected to take responsibilty for ensuring that the accepted boundaries of propriety are not crossed, and are condemned if they are. Today the contents of this ballad, where a male narrator claims he has talked an initially reluctant partner into 'kind non-resistance', would be regarded as questionable.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'On Gallia's Shore we sat and wept, / When Scotland we thought on, / Rob'd of her bravest Sons, and all / Her ancient Spirit gone.' 'Gallia' was the Latin name for 'Gaul', an ancient region of north-west Europe - in the vicinity of modern-day France and Belgium.
Psalm 137 lamented the destruction of Jerusalem: 'By the rivers of Babylon / there we sat down and there we wept / when we remembered Zion'. In this 'Imitation', however, the sentiments of Psalm 137 have been transposed to Scotland. A large proportion of broadside readers were probably familiar with this particular psalm, and would have been entertained and impassioned by its shift in location.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'I'm off to Kindonald, my fortune to try, / I'm off by the first train, so kind friends good-bye'. The second ballad begins: 'A courted a lassie for many a long day, / And hated all persons that against her did say'. The third ballad begins: 'Confide ye aye in Providence, for Providence is Kind, / And bear ye a' life's changes wi' a calm and tranquil mind'. The fourth ballad begins: 'Some boast the fruits o' sunny Spain, / And France wi' many a canty strain'.
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a large number of broadsides, published by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee, which feature four or more ballads on one sheet. These are particularly interesting since it was common practice amongst most other broadside producers to publish ballads individually. Sheets carrying two or more ballads proved extremely popular with the public - people believed they were getting more for their money!
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I am a simple muleteer, not too particular to rules, / I treat the world, both far and near, / As roughly as I treat my mules, as I treat my mules, / If they attempt to give me laws, without, without good cause . . . ' 'Muleteer' means 'mule-driver'. A note below the title states that 'Copies of this popular song can only be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the ballad should be sung to an original air. The sheet was printed on the Saturday morning of September 17th, 1864, and cost one penny.
This rambling ballad is written from the viewpoint of a muleteer - that is, a mule-driver. The verses tell of his mules, work, travels and attitude to life. The 'Clic clac' refrain that recurs throughout the ballad, meanwhile, is an onomatopoeic attempt to recreate the sound that he hears while riding his mule. Below the ballad, there is a notice informing readers about the various types of publishing services (complete with prices) that the Poet's Box can offer the public, plus a catalogue listing of other ballads that are available for purchase.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I'm afloat, I'm afloat, on the fierce rolling tide, / The ocean's my home and my bark is my bride; / Up, up with my flag, let it wave o'er the sea: / I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free.' The sheet was printed by J. Bowie of Causeyside, Paisley.
A detailed, though not very well printed, woodcut adorns the top of this sheet. It illustrates the ballad's themes of virility and belligerence well. It features a well-dressed young man wearing a long sword around his waist and carrying a shorter sword in his right hand. Behind him is a low wall, against which rests a large anchor and a cannon. Beyond the wall lies the sea, and a large war ship and a lightouse are visible.
Woodcuts are the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This light-hearted broadside begins: 'I'm Johnny Raw, a civil chiel', / I was reared up in the kintra, / Nae doubt ye winna ken me weel, / I'm a' the way frae Fintry. / Altho' I'm boosey, yet I'm fly, / Among the lasses I'm a pry, / And after me they a' do cry, / I wish my grannie saw ye.' This sheet was priced at one penny and could be purchased from the Poet's Box. Although the address has been scored out, probably as a result of a change of premises, it did read 80 London Street, Glasgow.
The accompanying tune is referred to as the 'Original', suggesting that the people buying this particular broadside were already familiar with the song and tune. Most of the songs and ballads that were printed by broadside producers were well-known amongst the populace. With no copyright law in place at this time, publishers were free to reproduce existing works without fear of prosecution.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Some poets always sing in praise of bright and sparkling wine, / And say there's pleasure in the foaming glass; / Well, they may take the wine, for there's something more devine / In the smiling of a bonnie, bonnie lass.' This song was published by the Poet's Box, of the Overgate, Dundee.
This is a song in praise of women, young and old. Although the singer 'loves the bonnie lassies' he also recognises that the 'poor old grannie' used to be one. The last verse illustrates the seniments well: 'Then here's to every mother, and every sister dear, / And while the sands of time run in the glass, / Let the toast of our lives be our sweethearts and our wives, / And success to every bonnie, bonnie lass.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside ballad begins, 'The puir auld folk at hame, ye mind, / Are frail and failing sair, / And week I ken they'd muss me, lad, Gin I came hame nae mair'. It was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee, and sold for a penny. An interesting woodcut of a stag standing beside an old tree adorns the top of the sheet. As with many broadsides, the woodcut appears to bear no direct relevance to the text. This was because woodcuts were reused, and broadsides were cheap and disposable - there was no point going to the trouble of making a new one for each piece. It is there simply for decoration.
This song concerns family and community ties, especially the feeling that there is a duty to look after the elderly as they had looked after their young. It is interesting to note that this song must have crossed the Atlantic. It is quoted in Louisa May Alcott's (1832-88) novel 'Jo's Boys' (1886).
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I canna leave my Highland hame, / Nor' a' the clans that bear my name; / I canna leave the bonny glen, / Nor a' I lo'e nor a' I ken'. The chorus reads: 'Flowers may bloom fair ayont the sea; / But oh! My Highland hame for me.' It was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a highlander playing the bagpipes.
Although no date has been included on this broadside, it was most likely published between 1860 and 1894 - the years during which Lindsay had premises at 11 King Street. This ballad presents a romantic view of rural life that was extremely popular during the nineteenth century, and can be found in the literature of the day. It would have appealed to those who had moved from the Highlands to the overcrowded and polluted cities of the south. Although life in the Highlands was far from idyllic, existing in the often squalid conditions of the cities, understandably, led to people romanticising their past.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I canna leave my hieland hame, / Nor a' the clans that bear my name; / I canna leave the bonny glen, / Nor a I loe nor a' I ken'. This sheet features a more decorative than illustrative woodcut border. It was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow.
James King is believed to have worked from 11 King Street in Glasgow for thirty years - between 1860 and 1890. It was during this time that Highlanders were being forced to leave their homes in the north and either seek work in the cities or emigrate to a new life completely. Glasgow, with its fast industrial expansion, had the greatest appeal to those seeking new lives. Perhaps the topic of this song was aimed at this section of the market.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: '[I am] going for a soldier, Jenny, / Going o'er the rolling sea'. The second ballad begins: 'Ye braw decent women I'll sing you a song, / Of the wit of the auld and the pride of the young'. The third ballad begins: 'The sea was brigh and the bark rode well, / The breeze bore the tone of the vesper bell'. The fourth ballad begins: 'The flowers are blooming Katty Darling, / And the birds are singing on each tree'.
The four ballads here are printed on one broadside headed 'Harmonist'. Although it was not uncommon for more than one ballad to appear on a broadside, the separate title for the sheet suggests that this may be one of a series of broadside songsheets entitled 'Harmonist', that made several different songs available in every issue. There are, however, no publication details or issue numbers printed on the broadside to verify this.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I sing the praise of Heros brave / Whose Warlike merit conquest gave, / And scorn'd to trample on a Foe, / But beat them first, then let them go: / After a Battle sharp and bloody, / Beyond the reach of Humane Study, / Obtain'd between strong Rocks & Trenches, / By dint of Sword, and vast expences'. The sheet was printed around 1719, by R. Thomas in London. It was also reprinted in Edinburgh.
This ballad was written after the 'little uprising' at Glenshiel in 1719, when an army of Jacobites under General Wightman and the 10th Earl Marischal were thwarted at Glenshiel by Hanoverian government forces. The ballad mocks the Jacobite army's claims that they escaped with no casualties, even though the battle raged for hours, and exalts the government forces for showing mercy.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The ballad begins: 'YE Whig Reformers all draw near, / To Aytoun'd trash ne'er lend an ear, / But join with me in a counter cheer - / Huzza for Provost Spittal!' A note below the title states that it should be sung to the tune of 'The Arethusa', which is a traditional Scottish song dating from around 1730, and also the name of a poem by the radical poet, Percy Bysshe Shelley. Although no publication date is included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published by Waugh of Edinburgh.
This political ballad refers to the contest between Sir James Spittal (1769-1842) and Jamie - or Jemmy - Aytoun(1797-1881), who were campaigning to be elected as Provost of Edinburgh. James Spittal was Provost from 1833-7 and was the first Provost elected by a free vote after the passing of the Burgh Reform Act in 1833. This sheet was probably published around 1833. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides describing this electoral contest. One, from the same publisher as this, is named 'Huzza! for Provost Aytoun!!' - obviously publishers could make more money by appealing to both factions!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'Come all Reformers brave and free, / All honest men come join with me, / And pitch your voice on the highest key, / To sing - Huzza for Aytoun!' Advertised as 'A New Song', it was to be sung to the tune 'The Arethusa'. This broadside includes a woodcut illustration of a man and woman - both of whom appear to be merrily drunk - walking arm in arm.
Unlike the majority of political broadsides, the publisher of this piece has deemed it necessary to include a number of explanatory notes at the bottom of the page. Whilst the information was obviously intended for the readers of the day, it is particularly helpful to a modern-day audience. As political broadsides often assumed a certain degree of knowledge amongst the readership, the subject matter can at times appear impenetrable to today's reader. James Ayton or Aytoun (1797-1881) was prominent in Edinburgh politics in the 1840s.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.Verse 1: 'Let them boast of the Shamrock, the Thistle and Rose, / I sing of what's fairer than any of those - / Of the cause of Reform and the Garland of Green'. The text preceding this reads: 'A NEW SONG. / TUNE - Sprig of Shillelah'. Two woodcuts have been included on this sheet - one at the top of thistles and a bonnet and one at the bottom of a smiling clown's face.
The Whig party was created by those who wanted more democratic powers for the parliament. The Whig base was originally in the countryside but this soon changed as their progressive attitude began to appeal to those in the newer industrial areas. The main thrust of their reforming programme was the enfranchisement of larger numbers of society. James Aytoun (or Ayton) (1797-1881) who is referred to in the text, was prominent in Edinburgh politics in the 1830s.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This ballad begins: 'Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet? / Or are your Bailies snoring yet? / If ye were waukin' I would wait, / Ye'd hae a merry, merry morning.' It was to be sung to the tune of 'Johnny Cope' and includes a woodcut illustration of a carriage pulled by a team of horses.
The 'Jemmie Forrest' of the title refers to the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, James Forrest. The song revolves around a rather unfortunate incident that took place upon the arrival of Queen Victoria in Edinburgh, during her 1842 tour of Scotland. Although the Lord Provost and the Bailies of Edinburgh were meant to form a welcoming party to greet the sovereign, when Victoria arrived in the capital there was no one there to meet her. This was highly embarrassing for those involved and provided fuel for a great many humorous broadsides.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet? / Or are your Bailies snoring yet? / If ye were waukin' I would wait, / Ye'd hae a merry, merry morning.' Half of a woodcut illustration can be seen at the top of the sheet, although the top half of it has been ripped off at some point. It would probably have depicted a coach and pair.
Jemmie Forrest was the Lord Provost of Edinburgh in 1842, the year in which Queen Victoria completed her tour of her Scottish realm. Unfortunately for Jemmie there were one or two incidents which caused the city a little embarrassment during her stay. Stands had been set up in Edinburgh so that citizens could view the sovereign's procession. One of these collapsed - killing two people and injuring about 48 more. The Earl of Errol was run over by the Queen's carriage. There was also a security mix-up and the Queen's bodyguards and the city guards became involved in a brawl thus endangering everyone's lives.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Hey, Jemmie Forrest, are ye waukin' yet? / Or are your Baillies snoring yet?' The reader is directed to sing these lyrics to the 'Tune - Johnny Cope'. There is also a woodcut above the title which depicts a very grand coach and four.
The tune 'Johnny Cope' was a well-recognised and well-used Jacobite tune, which in turn had been well established in the oral tradition. Not only would its familiarity have appealed to readers but it kept the Jacobite memory alive. The song itself refers to a giant bungle. On her 1842 tour of Scotland, Queen Victoria was supposed to have been officially met and welcomed to the city of Edinburgh. The Lord Provost, James Forrest, however, missed her entrance and his entourage were mistaken for assassins, which placed both parties in real danger!
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'Far awa' frae bonnie Scotland, / I have often spent my time, / By the mountains, lakes, and valleys, / In some distant foreign clime. / There I'd sit and sometimes ponder. / 'Midst their bright and varied scenes; / But my thoughts would always wander / To the hame o' Jeanie Deans.' The note 'Music at JAS. S. KERR'S, 314 Paisley Rd., Glasgow' is included under the title.
Jeanie Deans was the heroine of Sir Walter's Scott's novel, 'The Heart of Midlothian' (1818). Her story is outlined in this song and Scott is given recognition for his part in her creation. The character of Jeanie Deans was loosely based on Helen Walker who did indeed walk to London to obtain a pardon for her sister who was imprisoned for murdering her child.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'At a railway station, / Upon the Brighton line, / I first met my Jemima, / Why should I call her mine? / Her hair was light, her eyes were bright / Her dress a morning gown, / A trav'ling box stood by her side, / And on it Jemima Brown.' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and was priced at one penny. It was published on Saturday, 28th October 1865 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
One of the most interesting aspects of this ballad is the picture it paints of fashionable society in England in the nineteenth century. Almost all the locations mentioned, including Burlington Arcade, Brighton, Cremorne Gardens and Kensington, are places that became highly popular with the English moneyed classes in the Regency period (1810-1820). The fate of the beautiful embezzler Jemima Brown, running a grocer's shop with her children in Camden Town, seems quite modest in contrast to the description of her early dalliance with the narrator.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'My name is Jamie Raeburn, near Glasgow I was born, / My place and habitation I'm forced to leave with scorn'. The second ballad begins: 'I'm leaning o'er the gate, Annie, / 'Neath my cottage wall'. The third ballad begins: 'The love that I hae chosen, I'll therewith be content, / The saut sea shall be frozen, before that I repent'. The fourth ballad begins: 'Speed, bonnie boat, like a bird on the wing, / Onward, the sailors cry'.
This broadside was published and distributed by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee. It includes songs that would have already been well known to the audience of the day, and as a result probably sold well. Whilst most broadsides featured one or at most two ballads, this sheet of four songs would have been considered good value for money. 
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Far distant, far distant, lies Scotia the brave, / No tombstone memorial to hallow his grave; / His bones now scattered on the rude soil of Spain, / And young Jamie Foyers in battle was slain.' There is a woodcut depiction of a rather spruce looking soldier above the title.
This song is based on an old traditional Perthshire bothy song, which was especially popular amongst travellers. This version was inspired by the storming of Fort St Michael at Burgos, during the Peninsular War of 1811. At this time, Britain was fighting the French for control over various parts of Spain. Ironically, taking the King's shilling or joining up was an attractive offer at this time, as many of the Highland tenants were being cleared from their land to make way for sheep farming. The song went on to be rewritten again by Ewan McColl, and his version remains very popular. Jamie Foyers is thought to have been a generic Perthshire term for a soldier.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O waesucks, for Peter the "Loyal!" / What's this o't come owre him at last ; / Did ever man bide sic' a trial- / Did ever man stand sae aghast'. It was to be sung to the air, 'The Indulgent Landlord's March', and was dedicated to the Glasgow Political Union. The sheet was entitled 'Glasgow Melodies - No. 1.' and was printed by W. & W. Miller of the Trongate, Glasgow.
Although no publication date has been attached to this sheet, it is known that W. and W. Miller were working out of the Trongate in the 1830s. It is very likely, therefore, that this sheet was published around that time. They are also known to have had premises at 90 Bell Street between 1837 and 1840. Whilst the subject matter of this ballad might be a little unfamiliar to a modern-day audience, the broadside readership of the day would have been au fait with the politics of this piece.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'On a bonny day when the heather was blooming, / And the silent hill humm'd with the sair laden bee; / I met a fair maiden as homeward I was riding, / A herding her sheep on the hills o' Glenshea.'
This ballad addresses a common theme of broadsides - the differences between northern and southern Scots. Here they are highlighted as clothing, education and manners. The Highland lass, Jenny, however, is prettier than any southern girl and, it is suggested, has an open and innocent air about her. This broadside also has a happy ending, with neither partner regretting their choice, even after such a long time together.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Fair is the morn in flowery May, / And sweet is night in autumn mild, / When roving through the garden gay, / Or wandering in the lonely wild; / But woman, nature's darling child, / There all her charms she does compile; / Even there her other works are foiled / By the bonnie lass o' Ballochmyle.' This ballad was published at 192 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box. It was to be sung to an 'original' tune, and was priced one penny.
This is a version of a ballad whose authorship has often been credited to Robert Burns. In fact, the song credited to Burns started out as a poem to Wilhelmina Alexander (1753-1843) sister of the Laird of Ballochmyle. Burns's poem was later adapted into a song with the addition of the traditional chorus that also features in the song on this broadside. This is an example of how several different ballads based on the same story could evolve.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'AROUSE! arouse! Ilk kilted clan, / Let High'land hearts lead on the van'. It was published by T.Birt of 10 Great St Andrews Street, London. A woodcut of the crest of the Prince of Wales has been included above the title.
It is curious to note that this piece of pro-Jacobite, pro-Scottish literature was published in London, although the content may explain why it reached Scotland! The use of the Prince of Wales' crest, however, as a decorative motif for a pro-Jacobite song, seems a little controversial, and even dangerous. Anti-Jacobite feelings ran quite high until the tour of Scotland by George IV, in 1822.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.The lamentation begins: 'Come all you young people a warning take by us three, / We are unhappy creatures that are condemned to die, / All for that horrid murder that we have lately done. / On the body of Alexander Boyd on the twelfth day of June.' It was to be sung to the air, the 'Husband's Dream'. The text under the title informs the reader that the three accused were 'At present lying in Glasgow Jail, under the awful sentence of Death for the murder of / ALEXANDER BOYD, / In the New Vennel, Glasgow, on Sunday Morning, 12th June, 1853'.
The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes another broadside with two further lamentations regarding McFarlane, Blackwood and Young. Although they appear to have been written by the three culprits, it is very unlikely that they were. It was popular amongst broadside producers to print 'genuine' lamentations and last speeches in which the soon to be executed begged for God's forgiveness and fully repented their crimes. Such works not only provided entertainment for the readership, but were also thought to perform a valuable moral function.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'My whittle's lost! yet I dinna ken; / Lat's ripe - lat's ripe my pouch again / Na! I ha'e turn'd ower a that's in'd, / But ne'er a whittle can I find'. 'Whittle' is a Scots word for a sharp knife, and 'ripe' is Scots for 'search'. There are no publication details given on this broadside.
The comic nature of this poem is signified by the use of the word 'lamentation' in the title. Lamentations are generally songs or poems mourning the death or departure of a loved one, and to apply the term to a knife suggests an over-reaction to its loss. The comic melodrama increases throughout the poem, as the narrator first describes searching in vain for the knife and then imagines all sorts of fates for it. The poem culminates in a vision of the knife being unearthed in a peat bog and taken to Edinburgh as an antique, to be displayed proudly with William Wallace's relics.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The lament reads: 'As I was walking one evening of late, / A Reverend old man I chanced for to meet ; / His name was Michael Taylor I must let you know, / But his fate was overshadowed with great grief and woe.' Taylor's lament was 'For his wife and daughter, who were cruelly poisened by the daughters husband, / DR PRITCHARD, / who is now lying under sentence of death, in the Prison of Glasgow to be executed on the 28th July, 1865.'
With its connection to the high profile case of Dr Edward William Pritchard, 'The Glasgow Poisoner', this broadside would have sold extremely well. Pritchard was arrested on the strength of an anonymous letter sent to the authorities, soon after which he was found guilty of murdering his wife and mother-in-law and sentenced to be hanged. Famously the last man to be publically executed in Scotland, Pritchard's hanging in Jail Square, Glasgow, is thought to have attracted a crowd of around 100,000 spectators.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.The first lament begins: 'EACH feeling heart pray lend an ear / Unto this mournful tale, / It will draw a tear of sympathy, / I'm sure it cannot fail ; / It's of three wretched criminals, / In prison now we lie, / For the murder of Alexander Boyd / We are condemned to die.'
The second lament begins: 'GOOD people attend to our sad dismal tale, / And let our latter end be a warning to thee, / For base cruel murder we're doomed to suffer, / On the eleventh of August we must die on a tree.'
This broadside was printed in Glasgow and sold from premises at 203 Gallowgate. Two lamentations printed on one broadside would have been considered a bargain, and probably would have sold well. In 1853, Hans Smith McFarlane, Helen Blackwood and Ann Marshall or Young were charged with the murder of Alexander Boyd. Whilst McFarlane and Blackwood were found guilty and sentenced to be executed, Marshall was also found guilty but was recommended to mercy.The first verse reads: 'The Laird of D--mm--e he's gude and he's great, / He's ta'en up his head wi' affairs o' the state, / A Parliament-man he's determin'd to be, / O what wad ye think o' the Laird an M.P.' It was advertised as a new song to an old tune and was to be sung to 'The Laird of Cockpen'.
This ballad is a parody of the popular song entitled the 'Laird o' Cockpen'. The original version is attributed to Lady Carolina Nairne (1766-1845) and begins: 'The Laird o' Cockpen, he's proud and he's great, / His mind is ta'en up wi' the things o' the state'. The melody of the same name, however, predates Lady Nairne's lyrics. The 'Laird' of the title, in this instance, is clearly standing for election and is not shown in a favourable light. Despite the omission of certain letters from his name, he would have been easily identifiable to the audience of the day.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ''Twas a Monday night, the moon was shining bright, / The winds had been a-blowin' all the day, / We were sittin' in a ring' an Lor', how we did sing, / I reckon you'd ha' herd us 'cross the bay . . . ' Below the title, it is recorded that 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box Overgate Dundee'.
Set on a British ship, this ballad appears to be a song that criticises the existence of slavery in the United States. The sailors are sitting in a circle making conversation when a black man suddenly climbs up the ship's starboard side. After the escaped slave has shown the sailors the marks on his back where he was whipped, his master, the planter, arrives on deck. Noting the hostile atmosphere, however, the planter abandons the ship, leaving the former slave a free man. Britain abolished slavery in 1807, and throughout its empire in 1833, so this ballad may have been a propaganda piece written to show the British Empire in as favourable a light as possible.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When Jack had pulled the oar, and the boat was gone, / Aud the lassie on the shore with her head hanging down, / The tears stood in her eyes and her bosom heaving sighs, / Farewell, my dear, she dries, with your trousers on.' The sheet was published in January 1855, by the Glasgow Poet's Box, and sold for a penny.
This is an interesting broadside, not only because of the ballad it contains. At the top is an introduction to 'Jackie Tar' in the flamboyant style of Matthew Leitch, Poet's Box manager, after which he invites readers to visit and see his wares. 
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'My name is Dennis Docherty, a well to old man, / And I try to rare my famely as dasen't as I can, / I am just a few years over, and some money I have made, / And now I am the master, of a large coal shed.' This sheet was printed by William Shepherd of 182 Overgate and cost one penny. The Poet?s Box is mentioned also on the sheet and it is probable that Shepherd was associated with this enterprise in the early 1880s. The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. The Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore and also one in Paisley in the early 1850s run by William Anderson.This instructional ballad informs its audience that if they 'keep off the spree' (merrymaking and drinking), it is likely that they will make a success of their lives and line of business. Therefore, the aim of this moralising broadside appears to be to inculcate the Protestant work ethic into all that read and hear its message. In this ballad, the business in question is the delivery of coal, via horse and cart. The reference to 'Blackness Road' suggests that the setting for the ballad is the west end of Dundee - this being a prosperous part of the city that people would aspire to live in. Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This lament begins: 'Oh, you kind hearted people think of Pritchard's children, / Who are five in number that are left to mourn / For the loss of their mother that reared them so tender, / And their grandmother too, who will never return.'
In 1865, Dr Edward William Pritchard was found guilty of murdering his wife and mother-in-law and sentenced to be hanged. An anonymous letter alerted the police to the suspicious circumstances surrounding their deaths, and Pritchard's grisly role in their demise was soon uncovered. On the 28th July, 1865, Pritchard was the last man to be publically executed in Scotland. Printed on another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection is the lament of Michael Taylor, the husband and father of the two victims.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: Now I am not a fast young lady, / Nor do I lead a fashionable life, / For my father is a farmer / In a village down in Fife, / And I am his only daughter, / And he calls me pretty Nell, / And I am often seen with a pitcher, / Drawing water from the well.' The sheet does not contain any publication details, but a note beneath the title states that the song was 'Written and Composed expressly for Miss NELL MOONEY, by Mr James A. Kerr, Edinburgh.'
The title of this ballad, and the fact that it was to be sung to a tune called 'Pretty Nell',  suggests that it is an updated version of an older song. A character called 'Pretty Nell' does appear in an Irish folk song commonly known as 'The Handsome Cabin Boy' but it is is not possible to say with any certainty that that is the song referred to as 'Pretty Nell' on this broadside. Many thousands of broadside ballads were written or adapted, and a significant number of these were, like this example, idealistic songs written by a man about a beautiful young woman.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'This Nations Sins are many fold / And Scotland has no name, / Since Honours cast in a new Mould, / And Chastities a Stain. / How Men and Weomen did behave, / I'le tell you Sir's the manner, / When Wallace and the Bruce did live, / And I was a Dame of Honour.'
The meaning of this poem is not entirely clear, but it appears to be narrated by an Edinburgh prostitute. Although the term 'Knight' commonly refers to men, the phrase 'Knights of the Horn Order' may be a veiled reference to prostitutes. The narrator laments a lost, nobler, more chaste Scotland, and praises Bruce and Wallace. The references to these idols of Scottish independence, coupled with the early line 'Scotland has no name' suggests that this poem is a reaction to the 1707 Union of Parliaments, when Scotland was briefly rechristened 'North Britain'. It is implied that the Union has led to Scotland's moral decline.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You ask what makes this darkie weep, / Why he like others was not gay, / What makes the tears flow down his cheek / From early morn till close of day.' The text preceding it reads: 'PRICE ONE PENNY / This Popular Song can always be had the Poet's Box, 182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.'
This song has been attributed to S. Bingham Bishop and dates from the 1830s.
The bottom of the page also contains an advert, which claims that these sheets can be sent to anywhere in the country for the price of postage plus one stamp. The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A Wake now Muse, and so Peruse / Thy self now in this bit of time / Help me to use and abuse / Some sense now in this piece of Ryme; / And so to Write, that no debate, / May after Threaten, Hurt or Kill.'
Broadsides were cheap to produce and sell. Production of them focused on variety and speed, not necessarily accuracy and quality. and as a result the printing process was quick and changed often. Broadside sales were usually made on the street and were purchased mainly from sellers or chapmen. They often sang the songs or chanted the titles out to attract attention. That in itself must have been a colourful entertainment!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Our famed British regiments are faithful and brave, / And never were known to have ears'. The second ballad begins: 'On August twall frae Aiberdeen, / We sailed on board the Prince'. The third ballad begins: 'One day as I was walking, and as I did pass, / On the banks of Inverurie I met a bonnie lass'. The fourth ballad begins: ''Twas in the month of sweet July, / Before the sun had pierced the sky'.
This sheet was published and distributed by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee. There was sometimes an attempt by publishers, with broadsides that featured more than one ballad, to group similar songs together. This particular sheet, however, covers a vast array of themes. The first song touches on the heroic actions of Scottish soldiers at Lucknow, during the Indian Mutiny (1857-8), whilst the 'Lothian Hairst' revolves around a group of seasonal workers. The last two songs featured both touch upon the familiar themes of love and elopement.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You married men and women give ear unto my song, / I'll tell you of a circumstance that will not keep you long; / I heard a man the other day, and he was savage as a Turk, / He was grumbling at his wife, saying she would ne'er work.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a woman sweeping a floor.
Unusually, this ballad highlights the daily toils of women. It takes the form of a list detailing every chore a woman has to complete, while her husband is out at work. There are numerous examples in the National Library of Scotland's collection of broadsides that portray women as lazy, drunken and deceitful, but very few that present womankind in a more positive light. This rare example offers what is probably a very truthful representation of daily life for the average woman in nineteenth-century Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'As Morpheus my sen'es in slumber did drown, / I dreamt I was climbing Horeb, a holy mound, / Where Moses was chosen Grand Master in love, / By the Great Architect, for the great lodge above.'
The second ballad begins: 'By Killarney's lakes and fells, / Emerald isles and winding bays, / Mountain paths and woodland dells, / Memory ever fondly strays.' This sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow and would have sold for a penny.
James Kay mainly worked as a printer and kept premises on Argyll Street. This was away from Glasgow's main business area for book production in and around the Saltmarket. The reasons for, and effect of this, are simply not recorded. Kay was working from these premises during the 1840s and so it is likely that this sheet was published during this time.This ballad begins: 'KInd Lewis, my friend, / Since Things goes no better, / Here is a kind Letter, / Which to you I send, / to lay down your Arms: / For my conquering Son, / Will quite over-run / your Kingdoms I fear.' A note below the title states that this ballad should be sung to the tune of  'Let Mary live long'.
This ballad takes the form of a letter written by James II, King of England (1633-1701) to Louis XIV, King of France (1638-1715), who had the reputation of being a warmonger. As King James was only on the throne from 1685-1688, it seems likely that the ballad was written during this period. With its reference to the battleground of Flanders, the ballad states that the countries of Europe are tired of war and asks Louis - the 'Sun King' - to lay down his arms. As James and Louis shared the same Catholic religion, the lines regarding James's children holding out the 'olive branch' to Louis, seems to be a confident prediction that James's children will successfully accede to the English throne following their father's death, thus continuing the Stewart dynasty.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I sing of KING PIPPIN, the chief of his race, / The joy of the garden, the pride of the place -'. The text preceding this reads: 'Sung with unbounded applause by S-r T.D.L-r, Bart, at a late Whig Dinner. / TUNE - "Derry down"'. Parts of an 'Old Song' have been included at the bottom of the sheet, which was published by Butler of Edinburgh.
Broadsides were cheaply produced and easily available and as a result they reached a wide audience, comprising a variety of people. There are many Whig-themed broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection and the party seemed to have made full use of the printing and distribution facilities available at the time. It is curious to note, however, that the number of enfranchised citizens previous to 1833 was only 6% of the population and that by 1833 this had only grown to 12%. It makes a lot of this publicity appear a little needless, as not many people were involved in the voting procedure.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'My love still I think I sae her once more; / But, alas! she has left me her loss to deplore, / My own little Kathleen, my poor little Kathleen, O.' This broadside was published by W.R. Walker of Royal Arcade, Newcastle, and sold by B. Stewart of Botchergate, Carlisle.
The woodcut illustrating this broadside shows a Scottish Highland soldier and a tartan-clad woman with a spinning wheel. The picture has no discernible connection to 'Kathleen O'More', which is a song narrated by an unidentified man lamenting the death of his sweetheart. The choice of illustration, particularly coming from an English publisher, suggests the extent to which Scottish Highland imagery became associated with romantic tragedy after the international successes of James Macpherson's 'Ossian' poems and Sir Walter Scott's 'Waverley' novels in the late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth centuries.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Oh, have you heard the news of late, / About a mighty king so great? / If you have not, 'tis in my pate--- / The King of the Cannibal Islands.' The sheet was originally published and sold in 1858 by the Poet's Box of St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow, but the address has been obscured and stamp for the Dundee Poet's Box put on the top left, indicating that Oates 'inherited' the sheet. The song is to be sung to the strangely-entitled air of 'Hokee pokee wonkee fum'.
This ballad was written at a high-point of British Imperialism, and is a telling illustration of the superior attitudes which popularly existed among both those Brits who settled abroad, in countries such as Africa, and also among the broadside-buying public back in Scotland. As with another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, 'The Queen of Otaheite', the 'natives' are portrayed as bigamous cannibals, with little regard for Western ways.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Ye gentle muses that's nine in number, / I pray assist me to I explain, / The fate of love it has so induced me, / And by it's wounds my poor heart is slain.' This broadside was published by Robert McIntosh of 9 King Street, Calton, in Glasgow. It is not dated.
The nine muses, which are invoked in the first line of this ballad, are the Greek goddesses of arts, culture and learning. The ancient Greeks believed that the muses inspired all poetry, music and art, and for centuries it has been a tradition for poets to acknowledge the muses, or to ask the muses for help, in their work. Thus references to the muses can be found in some of the greatest and most ambitious poetic works ever created, but also in much more modest poems and songs such as 'Johnie's Lamentation'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'The juste milieu, the juste milieu, / From France imported neat and new, / Is now the rule on Britain's shore, / And homespun truth is prized no more! / Where once you saw the old true blue, / You now have got the juste milieu.' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
This amusing ballad, in its highlighting of the infuriating way in which politicians refuse to give straight answers to questions, will strike a chord with today's voters. In his exasperation, the writer deploys the famous French phrase, 'juste milieu' ('the happy medium'), to demonstrate how politicians at this time operated in the no-man's land between 'yes' and 'no', when answering questions. The ballad was likely written during the 1830s, when the boundaries between the various political parties became famously blurred. Indeed, the National Library of Scotland's collection includes many broadsides from around this period that highlight the way in which electoral candidates did not always represent what they claimed to represent.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I am the member of a school / Where the master is a fool, / And all the pupil teachers are the same, / And for kicking up a noise, / They have called us the jolly boys'. It was published and distributed by the Poet's Box, and probably sold for one penny.
The address of the Poet's Box - 80 London Street, Glasgow - has been scored out. This is very likely because they moved premises a number of times, and did not want to dispose of their old stock. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a large number of broadsides published by the Poet's Box. Although this particular sheet was clearly printed in Glasgow, there were also Poet's Boxes in Edinburgh, Dundee and Paisley. Information on their origins is sketchy, however, and it is unclear whether the different establishments were connected in any way other than by name.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The introduction to this broadside reads: 'A full and particular ACCOUNT of the Life and Actions of James Inglis alias Clipstir, who is to be execute upon Wednesday the first of May, for the Crimes of Horse and Sheepstealing.' The ballad itself begins: 'NO more this aged Sinner cheats the Tree, / Or swings a Helter round him wi' a Swie'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
This broadside tells the sad story of James Inglis or Clipstir, who was to be executed for stealing sheep and horses. Employing quite poetic imagery in its telling of this sad tale, the writer rejoices in the fact that, after a period of 40 years, the law has finally caught up with Inglis. So the tone of the ballad is very much that of a notorious criminal receiving his comeuppance. It appears that many of his crimes took place in the countryside around Edinburgh, since Haddington and Dirleton are both mentioned in the ballad. The mentioning of John Dalglish also helps the modern-day reader place an approximate date on the sheet, since Dalglish was a well-known executioner in Edinburgh during the early eighteenth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'INTO a place in Argileshire / called Campbeltoun by Name, / One Alaster Mackalaster / Who once lived in the same.' This should be sung 'To the tune of, Captain Johnston's Lament'. The full heading of the broadside reads: 'AN ACCOUNT of the Life and tragical End of Alaster Mackalaster, [w]ho was hanged at Aberdeen the 31st of May, 1723'.
Verse 1: 'FAREWEL to Lochaber, and farewel my Jean, / Where heartsom with thee I've mony a Day been; / For Lochaber no more, Lochaber no more, / We'll may be return to Lochaber no more.' This should be sung 'To the tune of Lochaber no more'.
Despite appearing on the same broadside, these two songs are very different in content. Alaster Mackalaster's life, crimes, capture and sentence are described in brisk, unsentimental tones by a narrator who feels that the manner of Mackalaster's death was 'too good' for him. By contrast, 'A New Song' is a lament by a Scottish sailor for his home region of Lochaber, and for Jean, the woman he left there.Verse 1: 'Ye gentle muses that's nice in number, / I pray assist me to I explain, / The fate of love it has so induced me, / And by it's wounds my poor heart is slain.' This sheet was published by R. MacIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow. The woodcut at the top of the sheet shows a street entertainer playing musical instruments and making two puppets dance.
The topic of love and the sweetness of a lover are very popular broadside themes and must have provided compelling escapism. This song must have been quite popular as there are numerous copies of it held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. The woodcut at the top of the sheet would also have enhanced its appeal and perceived value, especially for those who were only semi-literate.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Auld Jack Tamson rade hame frae the fair, / Late, late on o cauld winter night O! / He had toomed his three coggies, am mebbe ane mair, / Nae ferlie, his head it was light O! Below the title we are told that 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 OVERGATE, DUNDEE', and at the foot of the sheet a mail order service for other publications is advertised. 'Toomed' means 'emptied', 'coggies' is a 'cog of beer' and 'ferlie' means 'wonder'.
With an element of Burns's 'Tam O'Shanter' about it, this light-hearted ballad tells the practical joke played upon John Tamson by his despairing wife, Jean. Fond of his beer, it seems that John quite often fell asleep when travelling back from the fair in his cart, since the horse knew its way home without his guidance. On this occasion, however, the horse also falls asleep, leaving both of them stranded. Wondering what has happened to him, Jean goes out to find husband and horse both sound asleep. To teach him a lesson, she leads the horse home, leaving John to go searching for the horse once he wakes up.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore and one in Paisley in the early 1850s run by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There was these murderers Emond, Stewart, Burk and Hare, / These men to take men?s lives they did not care ; / Their victims by some means speedily dispatched away, / But the female in torture a long time did lay. / When her murderers forced their lust to fulfil, / Afterwards the wretches the body would kill ; / But the soul was far beyond these wretches reach, / A lesson to all such heathens for to teach.' Published by Robert Hodge, Edinburgh.
Part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to the Gilmerton murder, this sheet follows the news and investigative reports of the murder with a ballad of doggerel verses. It is likely that this ballad would have been read out by someone who had a gift for dramatic storytelling, while members of the public gathered round to listen to the narrator. The ballad itself is very religious in tone, with numerous references to the Almighty and the conflict between good and evil. It would appear that after the initial reports of an event had been published, it was customary to quickly follow them with a ballad specially dedicated to the subject. It is interesting to consider what this pattern suggests about the publishing of broadsides.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'The light of other days is faded, / And all their glories past; / For grief with heavy wing hath shaded, / The hopes too bright to last . . . ' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this highly popular song can only be had in the Poet's Box', and that the ballad should be sung to an original tune. The sheet was printed on the Saturday morning of August 28th, 1858, and cost one penny.
The intertextual title for this lyrical ballad comes from a song by William Balfe with words by Alfred Bunn. Skilfully employing poetic language and natural imagery, the ballad-writer shows how thinking overmuch about the past often makes us inclined to melancholy. Below the ballad, the sheet contains a rather hyperbolic tribute to the skills and vast repertoire of the poet who penned this ballad, plus information concerning how to purchase these other ballads through the postal system.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come, flow'ret, come hither, thy sweets shall not wither, / Unsheltered here beneath the chilling gale; / d mem'ries they waken of scenes now forsaken, / And her we called our lily of the vale.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this favourite song can only be had in the POET'S BOX', and that the ballad should be sung to an original air. The sheet was printed on Saturday March 2nd, 1867, and cost one penny.
The writer of this romantic ballad employs the central image of a lily of the valley, a symbol for innocence and purity, to convey an impression of the loveliness that his recently deceased sweetheart embodied. So the flower imagery employed in this song of mourning is in fact a symbol for the dead woman - the two entities of lily and dead lover being entwined together by the grieving narrator. Below the ballad, there is an advertisement telling readers about all the types of publishing services that the Poet's Box can offer customers, followed by a catalogue listing other ballads that are available for purchase.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'I Will away, and I will not tarry, / I will away with a Sojer Laddy, / I'll mount my Baggage and make it ready, / I will away with a Sojer Laddy.' The text preceding it reads: 'THE / LIGGAR LADY, / OR, THE / LADIES LOVE / TO A / SOLDIER. / To the Tune, of Mount the Baggage, &c.'
The second ballad begins: 'Come lay me soft, and draw me near, / and lay thy white hand over me, / For I am starving in the cold, / and thou art bound to cover me.' The text preceding it reads: 'ARTHUR'S-SEAT / Shall be my BED, &c. / OR / LOVE IN DESPAIR / A New Song much in Request, / Sung with its own proper Tune.'
Both these ballads are typical folk songs of their day. They are concerned with love, love-crossed and courtship. These themes would have been instantly recognisable to many in the audience and this is one of the appeals of this type of song. The tunes have not been detailed which suggests, again, that they would have been well-known. This indicates the popularity of this form of entertainment in society.This ballad begins: 'Life let us cherish while yet the taper glows, / And the fresh flower pluck ere it close; / Why are ye fond of toil and care, / Why choose the rankling thorn to wear'. The chorus reads: 'And heedless by the lily stray, / Which blossoms in our way.'
This short song is one of at least two which appeared on the same broadside, thereby offering the purchaser value for money. It is thought that the author of 'Life Let us Cherish' was the Swiss-born poet, Johann Martin Usteri (1763-1827). Whether he was responsible for the first verse or the entire composition is unclear. It does, however, offer the reader a simple but profound message: 'Away with every toil and care, / And cease the rankling thorn to wear, / With manful heart the conflict meet, / Till death sounds his retreat.'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This eulogy begins: 'The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson, / He made his cheeks as red as Crimson, / Who on his Dron bore bonny Flags, / And babed when he blew the bags.' As was noted along the top of this sheet, this eulogy was penned by Robert Sempill of Beltrees, Renfrewshire (c.1595-1665).
Habbie Simpson, famed in his time both for his musical talent and his outstanding personality, lived in Kilbarchan, Renfrewshire in the late 16th century. There are other sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which give further details of his life. The lyrics themselves became influential in Scots poetry as the style, known as the 'Standard Habbie' was adopted by Fergusson (1750-74) and Burns (1759-96) for non-eulogy poems.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 : 'William Lawrie had a Dog, / which he with meikle care, / Did train, teach and bring him up, / And breeding did not spare / First he begun to hunt the Hens, / And then because he saw / It pleas'd his Master, he began / to try the Sheep with a.' The ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'The Ladies Daughter'. Although it may appear that this verse is unfinished, 'with a' is more likely the poet's or printer's orthography for withal, meaning besides or as well.
This ballad is the story of a dog that has a predilection for killing sheep rather than hunting wild animals, and which is eventually beheaded for its crimes. These are not the only Scottish verses to deal with the public execution of a dog: 'The Dying Words of Bonnie Heck, a Greyhound in the Shire of Fife' is an anonymous pastiche on broadsides that printed the supposed last speeches of condemned criminals. It is narrated by a greyhound that is about to be hanged.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'The British Birds of late call'd over, / A Grand Fowl bred up at H-----r, / Exalted him to great Renown, / Deck'd with a rich Imperial Crown; / He swore he would maintain their Cause, / Religion, Liberties and Laws'. 'H-----r' should be taken to be 'Hanover'. Directly under the title it reads: 'Peers, Gentlemen, give Audience, To Fable ta'en from Common Sense'.
Robert the Raven is a pseudonym for the English whig statesman Sir Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Oxford (1676-1745), who is generally considered to be the first prime minister of Great Britain. He presided over the Governments of George I and George II, and wielded a tremendous amount of power and influence. Considered by many to be a corrupt and calculating man, many of the allegations included in this broadside appear to have been true. Finally, 'A Grand fowl bred up at  H-----r', refers to King George I, the first Hanoverian king of Great Britain, who was famously disinterested in British affairs and left the running of the country to his ministers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Since nought can satisfy the Wrath / Of these my Foes, but only Death / Before that I the world leave / My Confession ye's get, I believe / It wad be tedious to narrate / Each single Sin I did create / Because that they seem to be more / Than Sand that is on the Sea Shore...' The name of the publisher is not included.
This broadside ballad claims to be written from the viewpoint of Mrs McLeod, who was sentenced to death for committing forgery. In contrast to another broadside on the same subject in which she protests her innocence, this sheet provides readers with a detailed inventory of her crimes. The answer to this puzzle is that Mrs McLeod most likely did not write either of these broadsides. Instead, both sheets were probably written by experienced broadside writers who knew that crime sells and were looking for different angles on the same story. These broadsides are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'M'Leod you vild Adulterous Jad, / Think you my Service is so Bad, / That ye think shame to ca' me Master / You filthy Drunken Warld's Waster, / Mrs. Ye're come to be a Patien / To the best Doctor in this Nation, / And is that you his name would kno' / Into this Town he?s Lord Provo, / So Mrs. tell me your Disease / And in short Time I will you ease.' The name of the publisher is not included.
Although this broadside looks as if it contains humorous verses spoken by a Doctor John Dalgeish and his patient, Mrs McLeod, the doctor in question is in fact a hangman. Mrs McLeod was executed in Edinburgh in 1727 for the crime of forgery, and John Dalgeish was a well-known hangman. People reading and hearing the broadside then would have been aware of this fact, and would have enjoyed the jesting tone and conceit of this piece. As the insults increase in number and severity, the final verse reaches its climax when Doctor Dalgeish tells Mrs McLeod that she will soon be swinging on the scaffold.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'When Phoebus bright, the Azure Skies / with golden Rayes enlightneth, / These things sublunar he espies, / Herbs Trees and plants, be quick'neth'. No publication date is given. It is to be sung to its own tune.
This sheet also includes a further part, entitled 'The Words of Burn the Violer'. Today, this would be termed, 'violinist'. This piece begins, 'WHat? shall my Viol silent be, / or leave her wonted Scriding? / But choise some sadder Elogie, no Sports and Mirds deriding.' This song is also about the beauty of the Yarrow Valley.
The Ettrick and Yarrow Valleys are in the Scottish Borders, near Selkirk. Ettrick Forest has long been famed as an area of outstanding natural beauty and its contribution to Scotland's culture and literature has been enormous. William Wallace, Robert the Bruce, the Black Douglases, pillaging Border Reivers and fugitive Covenanters knew the valleys and their forests well.This ballad has a preface which reads: The last SPEECH, Confession, and dying Words, o[f] the Bogs, who were burnt in the Pleasance, on Monday the 25th of May, 1767. For the horrid Crime of Blood-sucking, A FARCE.' The ballad begins: 'HOW do you think your works will after thrive? / What cruelly to burn us all alive?' The broadside carries no publication details
The inspiration for this farcical ballad is not very clear. 'Bogs' is a Scots word for 'bugs', and it may be that the ballad was written to commemorate the burning of a house in Edinburgh's Pleasance that had become infested with some sort of bloodsucking insect or pest. This ballad is a parody of those that were written and published on broadsides describing the last words of condemned criminals.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Three to ride and to save, one to ride and to be saevd [saved]- / That's the key of my tale, boys, deep on my heart engraved.' A note under the title reads: 'THIS POPULAR RECITATION CAN ALWAYS BE HAD AT POET'S BOX, Overg[a]te Dundee.'
With references to 'the Ganges' bank', 'the Sirdar's horsemen', and a 'Siva-charmed sword', it is possible this ballad revolves around events during the Indian Mutiny, otherwise known as India's First War of Independence (1857-8). Following the mutiny, in which Indian soldiers or sepoys in the service of the British East India Company challenged British rule in India, control of the subcontinent passed from the Company to the British Government. Although the British, using extreme measures, managed to quash the uprising, they were unable to eradicate the bitter resentment felt by many Indians towards their presence there.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'WHEN phoebus bright the Azure Skies / with golden rayes enlighteneth, / These things sublunar he espies, / herbs, trees and plants he quick'neth: / Among all those he makes his choise, / and gladlie goes he thorow, / With radiant beams, and silver streams, / through Leader-Haughs and Yarow.' The ballad was to be sung 'To its own proper Tune'.
'Leader-haughs and Yarrow' is one of the very few great Scots ballads attributed to a specific person. The supposed author Nicol Burne of Selkirkshire is reputed to have been a foundling brought back to Scotland by the warrior, Wat O' Harden, after a raid on Northumberland. The poem's date of origin is unknown, but surviving copies in the National Library of Scotland are from c.1690-1701.
'Leader-haughs and Yarrow' is more ambitious poetically than most ballads. Its blend of nature imagery and classical allusion recalls the great sixteenth-century Scots poets Gavin Douglas and Alexander Hume, who may be the Hume referred to in the poem.This eulogy begins: 'THE LIFE AND DEATH OF THE PIPER OF KILBARCHAN, OR The Epitaph of Habbie Simpson / who on his Dron bore Flags / He made his Cheeks as red as Crimson, / And babbed when he blew his Bags.'
This poem was written by Robert Sempill of Beltrees, Renfrewshire (c.1595-1659). This poem became very important in the history of Scots literature as it resurrects an old verse form, but for a eulogy for the first time. The verse is called 'Standard Habbie', from the title, and consists of six lines. The first, second, third and fifth lines have 4 beats and rhyme, while the fourth and sixth lines have 2 beats and rhyme. The stanza was elaborated on by Allan Ramsay (1685-1758) and Robert Fergusson (1750-74) but it was most widely used by Robert Burns (1759-96). As a result it is sometimes known by the alternative title of 'Burns Stanza'. There is no date and publisher attached to this sheet but the continual reprinting of the song has ensured its survival.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'All Gentlemen and Cavaliers / That doth delight in sport, / Come here and listen to my song, / for it shall be but short: / And I'le tell you as brave a Jest, / as ever you did hear: / The Lasses of Kinghorn Town / put our Officers in fear.' The ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'Clavers and his Highland Men'.
'The Lasses of Kinghorn' tells the tale of a young chapman, or book-pedlar, who is captured by the army then rescued by the women of Kinghorn, who attack and outfight the army regiment holding the chapman. The ballad is a knockabout comic tale mocking the army, but the circumstances underlying it are more serious. The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were times of civil war in Britain, and book-pedlars would have played their part in distributing polemic for the various factions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside not only gives the reader the song, as reworked by James Tytler in the 'Scots Musical Museum' (c. 1790) but also gives the older version of 'Lass, gin ye Lo'e Me', as it appeared in Herd's 'Ancient and Modern Scottish Songs' (1776). The first line of Tytler's version is, 'I hae laid a herring in saut', and the older version begins, 'I ha'e layen three herrings a-sa't'. Published in 1854 by the Poet's Box, Glasgow, the sheet sold for a penny.
James Tytler (1747-1805), surgeon, writer, publisher, composer, and poet, has gone down in history as 'Balloon Tytler' because he manned Britain's first ever aerial ascent. The 'Great Edinburgh Fire Balloon' was exhibited in the unfinished dome of Robert Adam's newly completed Register House, before making its maiden voyage from Comely Bank to Restalrig in 1784. Tytler also completed the significant task of single-handedly editing and revising the Encyclopedia Britannica.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Oh let me like a soldier fall / Upon some open plain ? / This breast expanding for a ball / To blot out every stain. / Brave manly hearts confer my doom, / That gentler ones may tell; / Howe'er unknown forgot my tomb, / He, like a soldier fell. / He, like a soldier fell.' A note below the title states that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee'.
This solemn ballad tells of a young man's desire to die the - supposedly - glorious death of a soldier, while fighting on some battlefield. The shifting narrative viewpoint of the ballad is quite interesting, switching from the young man himself to the anonymous narrator. Although not especially interesting, this ballad does at least reveal that the young men of this era aspired to be soldiers, and that joining the armed forces was a common way of earning a living. Alternatively, it could instead be argued that the establishment wished the country's young men to think that dying a soldier's death was a noble objective that was well worth achieving.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Engraven in letters of honour and fame, / On history's page may be seen, / The men who for daring have gained a grait name, / Endeared to the Island of Green!' The text preceding it reads: 'Sung and Composed by PATRICK FEENEY. / This Popular Song can be had the Poet's Box, / Overgate, Dundee, / NEW SONGS OUT EVERY WEEK.'
It is most unusual to have an author's name attached to a Poet's Box publication. It would, therefore, be curious to know the circumstances under which this was published. The name and the Irish theme of the song suggest that it was written to appeal to an Irish audience. Certainly huge numbers of Irish immigrants settled in Dundee and the nearby village of Lochee, seeking work in the local jute mills.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Twas on a summer's afternoon, / A wee before the sun gied down'. The woodcut above the title depicts a very finely dressed couple holding hands beside a tree. This song was written by Lady Carolina Nairne, but was originally published under a pseudonym.
This is a very delicate and pretty song about a laird of Gowrie, courting a local lass whom he appears to be very much in love with. After kissing her, he immediately proposes, she accepts and they are married. The implication then is that both live happily together. The whole story is unusually uncomplex and happy for a broadside publication. There is no stern moral lecture or life lesson included here!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'As I was walking one morning in June, / To view the gay fields and meadows in bloom, / I espied a young female, she appeared like a queen, / With costly fine robes, and a mantle so green.'
This is a version of a fairly well-known folk ballad. The narrator of much of the ballad is a young veteran of Waterloo who falls in love with Nancy, a woman in a green mantle. Nancy initially rejects him until she discovers that the narrator saw her lover die at Waterloo, and was given her lover's gold ring. The narrator and Nancy eventually marry. Love influenced by coincidental or supernatural events like these was a common feature of the ballad tradition.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I spent my time in rioting, / debauch'd my health and strength, / I pillag'd, plundered, murdered, / but now alas! at length, / I'm brought to punishment condign, / pale Death draws near to me, / The end I ever did project / to hang upon a Tree.'
This ballad tells the sad story of Jamie MacPherson, who was hung for committing various crimes in 1700. Although MacPherson was guilty of some of the crimes, it is claimed that it was really political intrigue that sealed his fate. Legend has it that he read out his farewell poem on the scaffold, then played an original tune of his own on the fiddle. After finishing the tune, he offered the fiddle to the crowd. As no-one came forward to claim it, however, he smashed the fiddle, then was executed. This fiddle is on display in the Clan MacPherson museum in Newtonmore, Inverness-shire. The song, 'MacPherson's Farewell', by Robert Burns, is based on this incident.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.The first part of this story begins: 'MY old and faithful servant, Tommy Bodkin, has long been Thomas Bodkin, Master Tailor in Dalkeith, but removed to Edinburgh . . ' The second part of the story begins: 'We had a long and jolly night of it, but my head began spinning like a peerie, and I thought a' the room rinning round about . . .' The broadside was published by W. Smith of 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh.
This appears to be a broadside publication of a story by David Macbeth Moir (1798-1851), that was probably originally published in Blackwood's Magazine. Moir, from Musselburgh, worked as a doctor but was also a keen writer of prose and poetry. Between 1824 and 1827 he contributed a series of stories about his fictional creation Mansie Waugh or Wauch to Blackwood's Magazine, and these were published in a single volume in 1828. This was prior to Burke's execution, and it seems that for this tale, Moir revived his popular character as a reaction to the huge interest surrounding the Burke and Hare murders.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area, eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering solitary or vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.The first ballad begins: 'WHILE strolling near the Marble Arch, / One evening in July, / A maiden fair, with golden hair, / Came tripping lightly by, / The lustre of her almond eyes, / Shone o'er me like a torch / And in a whisper, softly said, / Is this the Marble Arch?' This ballad was written, composed and sung by Sam Bagwall.
The second ballad begins: 'PROUDLY the note of trumpet is sounding, / Loudly the war-cries arise on the gale, / Fleetly the steed by Loc Suilig is bounding, / To join the thick squadrons in Saimer's green . . . '
As this sheet contains two separate ballads, the chapmen would have sold it as a special offer of 'two stories for the price of one'. Given the contrasting tones,  and subject matter of each ballad, however, this pairing does appear rather incongruous. Set in London, the first ballad is narrated by a jilted male lover, who meets his sweetheart below the Marble Arch. The second ballad, 'O'Donnell Aboo', is an epic-style eulogy to the Irish chieftain, Rory O'Donnell, Earl of Tyrconnel (1575?1608). The tune for O'Donnell Abu was composed in the early part of the 19th century by Joseph Haliday, a man from Carrick-on-Suir, Co. Tipperary. He was bandmaster of the Cavan militia. Michael McCann, a young Galway man, added words to the music. The composition first appeared  in 'The Nation' of January, 1843 and was then called 'The Clan Connell War Song'.Verse 1: 'Thou dark rolling River, how gladly for ever, / I'd dwell on the rich banks, all rich with the vine, / That bright sky above thee, how fondly I'd love thee, / If blest with the heart of the maid of the Rhine.'
This song is addressed to the river Rhine. The narrator praises the beauty of its mountains and dales, and the richness and fertility of its valley, yet confesses that he will only be happy to live on its banks if he can win the heart of 'the maid of the Rhine'. Poems and songs addressing and praising some non-human aspect of nature have probably existed for as long as music and literature have been created. It is very common for this appreciation of nature to be bound up in some way with a human romantic dilemma, as in this song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The moon's on the lake and the mist's on the brae, / And the clan has a name that is nameless by day;'. Published in Dundee by the Poet's Box, the song was apparently 'Sung with great success by Miss G. Forrester'. It is possible that Miss Forrester was a local celebrity, and by using her name the publisher hoped to sell more copies.
Although he is not credited here, 'MacGregor's Gathering' is one of Sir Walter Scott's (1771-1832) most famous poems. It was written in 1816, but it is possible that this broadside is of a later date. The titles of the songs at the bottom of the sheet give a clue, 'The Wondrous Telephone' and 'The Iron Horse' suggest that this is a late-nineteenth century broadside.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.'A Man that is Married' begins: 'When a man first appears in maturity's years, / To encounter the troubles of life, / He thinks with delight he could make himself right, / Could he only get hold of a wife...'
'The Little Gypsy Girl' begins: 'My father is a king of the gypsies, 'tis true, / And my mother is learning the camping to do, / With my pack on my back, they all wished me well, / When I set off for London, some fortunes to tell...'
This broadside would have been considered good value, as it contains two ballads instead of the standard one and is illustrated with a woodcut. The two poems are quite different in nature, although both touch on popular ballad themes. 'A Man that is Married' jokingly warns men about the terrible toll marriage will take on wallets and lifestyles. 'The Little Gypsy Girl' is a fantasy about a young gypsy who marries a wealthy squire after foretelling that their destiny is to be together.Verse 1: 'I've just got here, through Paris, from the sunny southern shore, / I to Monte Carlo went, just to raise my winter's rent; / Dame Fortune smil'd upon me as she'd never done before, / And I've now such lots of money, I'm a gent, / Yes, now I've such lots of money, I'm a gent.'
This song is still very well known today, but first gained popularity in British music halls of the nineteenth century. It is believed to have been inspired by Joseph Hobson Jagger, an engineer from Little Horton in Bradford, who won one million pounds playing roulette in Monte Carlo in  July, 1875. Jagger died in 1892 and is buried in Bethel graveyard, between Bradford and Halifax. The song was written by Fred Gilbert and popularised by Charles Coburn.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Summer time being in its prime, / The weather calm and clear, / My troubled mind no peace can find, / For thinking on my dear.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a small house situated in a clearing.
This particular woodcut illustration was used by Lindsay on a number of different broadsides, including one featuring the song 'Annie Laurie'. It was common practice for broadside producers to reuse their often limited stock of woodcuts. In many cases, the illustration bore little or no relation to the subject, and was merely added as a selling point.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHA' wadna' be in lor / Wi' bonny Maggy Lawder, / A piper met her gaw on to fife, / He spierd wat was they ca'd her, / Right scornfully she answer'd him, / Begone ye hawling shaker'. Below the title, a note states that the sheet was published by Charles Pigott of 52 Compton Street, Clerkenwell, London. A 'hawling shaker' is a Scots expression for 'tramp'.
There are a number of variations regarding the proper title for this traditional song, which was popular in London at the beginning of the eighteenth century and featured in 'The Quaker's Opera' in 1728. It is believed that the original version of the ballad was written in 1642 by Francis Sempill (1616-1682), although many musicians and poets - including Robert Burns - later embellished the song. Most versions of the song tell how Maggy was seduced and made pregnant by a piper from Fife called, in this case, 'Rob the Ranter'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins, 'Now do I find to Death I'm near, / For half an hour shut to the Door, / Till I make known all that I shall, / Cause be contain'd in my Latter Will'. No publication details are given.
Luckie Gibson was an Edinburgh bawd, or brothel keeper. The piece is written in the first person, implying Gibson wrote it herself. It seems more likely, however, that it was written after her death, commissioned by her friends or perhaps written by one of them, for it shows a lot of affection for the woman and her enterprise.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Returning homewards o'er the plain, / From market t'other day, / A sudden storm of wind and rain / O'ertook nie on the way'. A woodcut of a quaint cottage, with two lovers sitting on a bench outside has been included at the top of the sheet. There were publication details on the sheet to start with but the specifics have been blacked out and all that remains is 'Edinburgh'.
Many of the broadsides which now reside in the National Library of Scotland's collection appear to have had their publication details either blacked out or cut out. This is especially true of sheets published by the Poet's Box chain of printers and distributors. Although the reason for this is unclear, one suggestion is that the sheets were excess stock which were sold on. The next seller then had to erase the original details.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Summer time being in its prime, / The weather calm and clear, / My troubled mind no peace can find, / For thinking on my dear'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. The woodcut carried above the title depicts a quaint cottage in the forest.
Lurgan, County Amagh, is featured in many broadside ballads, mainly in conjunction with travelling and emigration. This ballad, however, focuses on returning to find an old flame at the height of summer's bloom - so the atmosphere is one of hope and tranquillity. The song featured on many Lindsay's publications, often being published with another love or summer poem. This would have heightened the audience's enjoyment of the sheet, with one poem enhancing the other.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I have a ship in the North Country, / And she goes by the name of the Golden Vanity.' The text preceding it reads: 'PRICE ONE PENNY. / Copies of this song can be had the Poet's Box, 182 OVERGATE DUNDEE.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'THREE times the Carline grain'd and rifted, / Then from the Cod, her Pow she lifted, / In bawdy Policy well gifted, / when now she sawn / That Death na langer wad be shifted, / she thus began...' Although not attributed on the broadside, the great Edinburgh poet Allan Ramsay (1684-1758) is known to have written this poem around 1718.
'Lucky Spence's Last Advice' parodies the broadside publications of 'last words' or 'Dying advice', which offered moral instruction and were often imputed to condemned criminals although more likely composed by the broadside author. The narrator, Lucky Spence, is a brothel-keeper, and her advice consists mainly of instructing her 'girls' how best to exploit the hypocritical Edinburgh figures of authority who are their best clients. The verse form is 'Standard Habbie', derived from the influential Scots comic ballad 'The Life and Death of Habbie Simpson, Piper in Kilbarchan' written in the seventeenth century by Robert Sempill (c.1595-c.1665) of Beltrees.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all you Lowland lovers, and listen to my song, / A sad and dismal story, I will not keep you long; / Concerning a poor unhappy girl, distracted in her mind, / All for a brisk young sailor, no comfort can she find.' This broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the place or date of publication.
'The Lowland Lovers' is a song narrated by a woman whose sweetheart has joined the navy and gone to sea. Love and separation are common themes in broadside ballads, and the separation usually involves a woman being left at home while her husband or fianc either emigrates to find work, or joins the armed forces. It is ironic that, although in these ballads the army and navy seem to steal the men away, in some other ballads soldiers and sailors are portrayed as romantic heroes or figures of desire.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I walked out one evening in the month of May, / The flowers they were springing the lambs did sport and play; / I heard a couple talking, as they walked hand in hand; / For to hear their conversation I eagerly did stand.' There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
This ballad follows a religious dispute between two young lovers. It is presented as if overheard by a third party. Whilst Johnny declares himself a Roman Catholic and accuses Nancy of heresy, she denounces the Church of Rome and maintains her loyalty to Luther and Protestantism. After threatening to leave Johnny, Nancy is suddenly overcome with loyalty and chooses to forego her faith for him. This ballad illustrates well the age-old tensions that existed between Roman Catholics and Protestants.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Young Beigham was a noble Lord, / A noble lord of high degree, / he got himself on board a ship, / some foreign countries for to see. / He sailed east he sailed west, / till he came to Turkey, / Till he was taken and put in prison, / Till of his life he grew quite weary.'
'Lord Beigham' tells the story of a seafaring nobleman who makes a vow of marriage to a Turkish woman who saves his life, then almost forgets his promise. Ballads which combined romance with travel and adventure were always popular, and 'Lord Beigham' was undoubtedly reprinted on several occasions. Another version is held in Glasgow University Library as part of the Murray Collection, a collection of several hundred nineteenth-century broadside ballads amassed by a Glasgow solicitor, David Murray.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'I have a ship in the North Country, / And she goes by the name of the Golden Vanity, / I am afraid she will be taken by some Spanish Galleon, / As she sails in the Lowlands Low.' This broadside was published by the Poet's Box, possibly in Glasgow, and is dated April 1877.
There are a number of different versions of this old ballad, in which the enemy changes nationality from Spanish to French or even Turkish. Also, in some, the young boy is wrapped up in a bearskin before he jumps overboard. They all, however, conclude with the betrayal of the boy. As part of the oral tradition, ballads were passed from person to person down through the generations and were never intended to be written down. Naturally, with each retelling slight variations or embellishments often crept in. This organic process helped to breathe new life into ancient but timeless works.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'WRITTEN FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE Majority of THE EARL OF DALKEITH 9TH September 1852'. This ballad begins: 'CHEER! Cheer! Ettrick and Teviotdale ; / Let hill and dale echo cheers hearty and true'. This broadside was published by James Dalgleish of the High Street, Hawick, and probably sold for one penny. It includes a decorative border and slogans supporting the Earl.
At a time of great political reform, when people were protesting against the power of the landed classes, it is quite interesting to find this tribute to a member of one of the most powerful landed families in Scotland. The song appears to be a pastiche of Sir Walter Scott's 'Blue Bonnets Over the Border', the chorus of which begins: 'March! March! Ettrick and Teviotdale'. The song was probably written by William Hobkirk.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'When first I saw sweet Peggy, / 'Twas on a market day, / A low-backed car she drove, and sat / Upon a truss of hay!' This broadside was published by the Poet's Box, most likely in Glasgow, and is dated April 1878. It was to be sung to the 'Original' tune, which suggests people were already familiar with both the song and melody.
This ballad is believed to be the work of the Irish painter, novelist and songwriter Samuel Lover (1797-1868). It is not unusual that his name was omitted from this broadside. There are very few instances in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collections where such works have been attributed. With no copyright law in place, original works could be reproduced at will with no obligation to acknowledge or seek permission from the author.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Lent fourty Work dayes ever was, / With just six Sundayes more; / But three Horn'd Beasts at Aberdeen / Intends to make three score. / For now they want but only fix, / As clearly may appear; / And if they continue with their old tricks, / They shall want none nixt year.'  This should be sung 'To the tune of Robin Hood and the Tanner'. The 'three Horn'd Beasts' are named as 'John Forbes, Master Duncan Lidel, / With his sone George to tune their fidle.'
This ballad appears to be part of a debate about the proper dates of religious fairs and festivals. The author mocks John Forbes, Duncan Lidel and George Lidel for wanting 'three score' days in Lent, and makes numerous references to the Jewish calendar to support his argument that the status quo is correct. There appears to be a regional element to this argument, the 'horn'd beasts' being scholars in Aberdeen while the author appears to favour Edinburgh. It is not known whether 'Lidel' here is any relation to the famous Aberdonain physician Duncan Liddel (1561-1613).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'LOCHIEL! LOCHIEL! Beware of the day / When Sir Kenneth shall meet you in battle array ; / The close of the struggle looms clear on my sight, / And the ranks of the Tories are scattered in flight.' The original poem was written by Thomas Campbell (1777-1844), about Donald Cameron of Lochiel (c.1700- 48), who was a highly-regarded Highland chief, and supporter of the Jacobite cause.
This piece cleverly adapts Campbell's original 1802 text, making it applicable to an Inverness-shire Parliamentary election. It takes the form of a dialogue between a nineteenth-century Lochiel, Donald Cameron of Lochiel, M.P., and a Wizard. They discuss the merits of the incumbent Tory M.P., Sir Kenneth Mackenzie of Gairloch. Lochiel is poked fun at in various ways, and the device of allowing him to speak for himself cleverly lets him show up his own hypocrisy and corrupt nature, e.g. 'I have marshalled my clan, With coaxing and threatening they'll plump to a man'.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate. Modern-day satirists use much the same techniques, only using pop songs rather than poetry!This ballad begins: 'One night I wanted lodgings in a country town, / And to a cozy cottage I was led, / When the landlady informed me, as her lodger was away, / She'd agre[e]d that I should take the lodger's bed'. It was published and distributed by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee, and probably sold for one penny.
The patterers and pedlars who wandered the towns and countryside selling broadsides ballads, often sang the songs to encourage people to buy a sheet. As musical notation very rarely accompanied the lyrics, it was the perfect opportunity to teach the melody to the purchaser. In many cases, the same familiar tune was used for a vast array of songs.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Oh! once I was gay as the lark in May, / And my young heart beat in tune; / While my way was bright, and my step was light / As the linnet's wing in June; / but sad and alone in my grief I've grown, / And all day I now complain, / For I've lost every bliss in a world like this, / Buried deep is sweet Lottie Lane.' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and was priced at one penny. It was published on Saturday, 2nd July 1870 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
'Lottie Lane' is a touching but unremarkable song mourning the death of a loved one. Of more historical interest is some of the text surrounding the poem. Although the city of publication has been obscured in this broadside, the additional text matches text in broadsides from the Glasgow Poet's Box that are held by the National Library of Scotland. The Glasgow Poet's Box was not only a publisher and supplier of broadsides: as the adverstisement reveals here, it would also provide 'Letters and Petitions?on the most moderate terms'. In an era when adult literacy was lower than it is today, this was an important service.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'HE. One day while working at the plough, / Fal, lal, &c. / I felt just here I can't tell how, / Fal, lal, &c. / I turned my head round, just to see / who 'twas I heard, when there stood thee, / Like Venus com'd out of the Sea. / Fal, lal, &c.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Blue Tailed Fly'.
This song is structured as a flirtatious dialogue between a young farmer, Honest John, and a pretty young woman, Nan. Nan plays off John's proposal against another she has received from a rich squire, and tells John that a magpie has flattered her about the squire's attentions. In Britain the magpie is traditionally rumoured to have Satanic qualities, so this is a bad omen. Eventually, in increasingly short and frantic exchanges, John convinces Nan to marry him instead. At the climax to the song, both turn to the audience to tell them to ensure that honesty and love conquer the devil and jealousy.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'Loch Na Garr' begins: 'Away, ye gay landscapes! Ye gardens of roses, / In you let the minions of luxury rove'. 'Feyther's Old Sow' begins: 'Good morrow, Miss Biddy, pray how do you do / I dare say you gusses at what I become about'. The broadside was published by Harkness, printer, of Church Street in Preston. It does not carry a date of publication.
'Loch na Garr' was written by George Gordon, Lord Byron (1788-1824), a poet of huge international renown. Byron passed the first ten years of his life in Aberdeen and spent holidays in a farm in Deeside, which gave him a love of the Aberdeenshire countryside that is celebrated in this poem. Lochnagar, the mountain that gives this poem its title, was also the inspiration for a picture book, 'The Old Man of Lochnagar', written by Prince Charles in the 1970s. The author of 'Feyther's Old Sow' is not printed on the sheet, but it is probably safe to assume it was not written by Lord Byron!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Ye ken whar you wee burnie, love, / Rins roarin' to the sea ; / And tumbles o'er its rocky beds, Like spirits wild and free. The mellow maves tunes his lay, / The blackbird swells his not ; / And little robin sweetly sings, / Above the woody grot.' The ballad was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
The spelling in this ballad is inconsistent, which is not uncommon in broadsides. The word 'fairy' is spelt two ways: as in the title (which is probably a misprint), and as 'farey'. Morag's Fairy Glen is still a popular attraction in Dunoon, Argyllshire, and was gifted to the town in 1929. Although not mentioned here, the song was written by William Cameron (1801-77).
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'WHen my dearest Dear did first appear, / I bless'd the time that I had found her: / Her beauty did my Heart inchear, / But now alas we two must sinder!' This should be sung 'To the Tune of Wo's my Heart that we should sinder'. Here 'sinder' is the poet's or printer's orthography for sunder, meaning to part.
This ballad is narrated by a man who regrets the fact that his marriage has failed because of his wife's jealousy. Throughout the poem he maintains that he has remained faithful, and that his wife's jealousy is unfounded. Initially it seems that the narrator is merely lamenting parting from his wife, but by verses ten and eleven a more tragic aspect emerges, as it becomes apparent that this ballad is a suicide note: 'But yet alas! I must be gone, / I'm glad to die before we sinder.'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Now lend your lugs, ye benders fine, / Wha ken the benefit of wine; / And you wha laughing feud brown ale, / Leave jinks a wee and hear a tale'. This sheet was published on Saturday 15th July, 1871, by the Poet's Box. It would have cost a penny to buy.
This rather strange story would no doubt have been highly entertaining at the time it was sold - given the lack of other diversionary activities available. It tells the story of the miller, Halbert, his beautiful young wife, Bess, and the local priest - who all three enjoy a close relationship. The nature of the relations, however, are revealed when a student and stranger catches the priest courting Bess. The student James, then takes advantage of Halbert's ignorance to perform 'magic' tricks for the miller!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse of 'THE MOON is out to-night Love OR, SWEET KITTY OF THE GLEN!' begins: 'THE moon is out to-night love, / Floating thro' the sky, / Little stars are laughing, As she passes by'. The chorus begins: 'The moon is out to-night love, / Meet me with a smile'. The broadside is decorated with sun motifs.
The first verse of 'MOTHER TAKE ME HOME AGAIN' begins: 'Mother all alone to night, / I have sat and thought of thee, / Thinking I could hear your voice, / Gentle as it used to be'. The chorus begins: 'There is no place on earth like home, / There my heart will ne'er remain'.
Whilst the first song has been attributed to the prolific Amercian songwriter and journalist, William Shakepseare Hays (1837-1907), it is unclear whether 'Mother Take Me Home Again' was also one of his compositions. Written in a very similar style, however, it does appear likely that it was. Hays is thought to have written around 350 songs during his lifetime.This ballad begins: ''Tis mony makes the mair to go is a saying old and true / And when you've go the ready cash, friends will stick like glue, / But when your purse is empty, those friends you thought sincere, / Will proudly turn upon their heels and quickly disapper.' A note below the title states that this ballad was 'Sung by Harry Russell, with great success', and that 'Copies of this popular song can always be had at the POET'S BOX, Overgaie, Dundee'.
This morose ballad tells of the writer's despairing belief that money ends up corrupting everything and everyone - a reversal of the King Midas touch, as it were. To illustrate his bitter argument, the writer highlights a number of episodes to prove that, tragically, everyone has their price, and that money all too often usurps our abstract worldly possessions of real value such as love and friendship. The manner in which 'M-O-N-E-Y' is spelt out is quite eye and ear-catching, and suggests that the narrator of the ballad would have spelt the word out to his audience for dramatic effect, with a strong emphasis on each letter.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Come all you brave hearts of Gold, / let's learn to be merry and wise / For it is a true saying of old, / Suspicion is doubtless disguis'd: / Whatever we say or do, / Let's not drink to disturb our brain; / But laugh for an hour or two, / And never be Drunk again.' This ballad was to be sung 'To an Excellent New Tune', and was published by John Moncur of Sclater's Close, Edinburgh, in 1707.
This ballad celebrates the advantages of moderate drinking, such as inspiring convivial company or giving courage to soldiers and courting men, yet warns the listener against drinking to excess. The advice seems to have fallen on deaf ears: Edinburgh was famous for its public houses and gentlemen's clubs, and the three greatest Scots poets of the eighteenth century, Allan Ramsay, Robert Fergusson and Robert Burns, all wrote extensively in praise of drink.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Tonny. / COME, my couragious Jack, my metl'd Scot; / Why may'nt we kindle Kindness with a Pot, / Yow've run the Ghent-loup, and yow've try'd the Tron, / Your suffrings are expir'd, when mine comes on'. A handwritten annotation at the foot of the broadside suggested that it was published in Edinburgh on the 16th of April 1728. The price and publisher are not noted.
This 'merry dialogue' between two prisoners in Edinburgh's tolbooth is structured like a 'flyting', a Scots poetic mode wherein two rivals attack each other in verse. Of the two rivals, Tonny Ashton and John Curry, a handwritten annotation under the title reveals: 'The former being imprisioned Apr 1728 with his son Walter for the said Walters Inticaing and Marriaing Mrs Joan Ker. Little is known about Curry but Aston was an English actor who had come to Edinburgh in the 1720s. He had incurred the wrath of the Master of Revels by failing to pay dues he owed and by continuing to perform in spite of a prohibition.  After a spell of litigation, Aston cut his losses and left Edinburgh in 1728. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'As I sat at my windy one evening, / The letter man brought unto me / A little gilt edged invitation, / Saying, Gilhooly, come over to tea. / Sure I knew that the Hooligans sent it, / So I went just for old friendship's sake, / And the first thing they gave me to tackle / Was a piece of Miss Hooligan's cake.' The text beneath the title reads: 'Sung by Harry Melville and J.M. Oates with success.' The song was published by the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter Street, Dundee, priced one penny.
This comic ballad describes a monstrous Christmas cake that poisons everyone who eats it. Although the broadside was apparently published in Dundee, some surnames and phrases in the ballad suggest that it is about a group of Irish acquaintances. The large number of Irish-themed broadsides found in Scotland reflects the high level of Irish migration to Scotland during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. As a major urban industrial centre, Dundee become home to a large Irish migrant population.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Ye Nimphs and Silvian Gods, / That Love green Feilds and Woods, / When spring newly Born herself does Adorn / With Flowers and Blooming Budes; / Come singing the Praise, while Flooks does graze / in yonder pleasant Vail: / Or these that choose their Sleep to loose / And in Cold goes with clouted Shoes, / To carry the Milking Pail.' The ballad was to be sung 'To an excellent New Tune, much in request'.
Verse 1: 'As I was a ranging yon Forrest of Fancies, / With the nine Muses attending me, / Into a Bour I spied beautiful Nancie, / Sadly bemoaning her Destinie; / Saying Alas! Where shall I wander, / Where to find out my own dear Swain, / Patience of Sorrow in heart I lay under, / True love is a Tormenting pain. ' This should be sung 'To its own propper Tune: True Love is a Tormenting Pain'.
Despite being published on the same broadside, these two ballads are very different in tone. 'The Milking Pail' is a song celebrating the beauty of milkmaids above all other women, and attributing this beauty to the health-giving properties of the countryside. 'Nancies Unkindness to her lover' is a young woman's heartbroken lament for the lover she has betrayed, overheard by a passer-by.Chorus: 'Meet me on the gowan lea, / Bonnie Mary, sweetest Mary; / Meet me on the gowan lea, / My ain, my artless Mary.' Verse 1: 'Before the sun sinks in the west, / And nature a' hae gane to rest; / There to my faithfu' bosom press'd / O let me clasp my Mary.' This sheet carries no publication details.
This love song was written by William Cameron (1801-77), who was born in Stirling but worked as a pawnbroker in Glasgow. Cameron wrote many songs and poems, and his work is notable for its celebration of the beauty of nature and the Scottish countryside. As well as living in Glasgow, Cameron owned a cottage in Dunoon called 'Gowan Lea'. 'Gowan' is a Scots word commonly referring to a wild daisy, although it is also occasionally used to denote the buttercup. A 'lea' is a meadow or unploughed field that has been left to grass.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A Shepherd sat him under a Thorn, / he pull'd out his Pipe and began for to play, / It was on a Mid Summers day in the morn, / for honour of that Holy day.' The text preceding it reads: 'Or, the Pleasant Pastime betwixt a Jolly Shepherd and a Country Damsel, on a Mid-Summer-Day, in the Morning. / To the tune of March Boys, &c. Licensed according to Order.'
The use of the word licence in the introduction to this ballad is quite interesting. Licences were usually only issued where tax payments were due, such as on newspapers, and broadsides were untaxed. Often 'licence' is used to mean entered in the Stationers' Registry. This gave publishers some measure of copyright protection. On a further note, this statement was sometimes included even when the text had not been registered, as a measure of low-cost  protection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Meet me by moonlight alone, / And then I will tell you a tale, / Must be told by the moonlight alone, / In the grove at the end of the vale. / You must promise to come for I said / I would show the night flowers their queen; / Nay, turn not away thy sweet head, / 'Tis the loveliest ever was seen. / O meet me by moonlight alone.' This song was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee, and priced at one penny.
This haunting ballad appears to be a love song addressed to a woman. The narrator requests a meeting with the addressee in a grove by moonlight. In the most memorable image of the song, the woman is described as the queen of the night flowers. It is suggested there is a gravity and seriousness about the narrator's love for the woman that is better suited to night: 'Daylight may do for the gay, / The thoughtless, the heartless, the free; / But there's something about the moon's ray; / That is sweeter to you and to me.'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O SIRS, and maun I stand and chitter / A' nicht aneath the blast sae bitter'. This poem was, allegedly, written by 'A four-footed tee-totaller'.
Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts involving life lessons and advice. There are a few broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's Collection which are written from a horse's point of view, which may appear odd. Horses, however, were really the only means of long-distance travel and heavy haulage. Horse drivers were also renowned for their poverty and outrageous drinking habits.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 and chorus: 'Fhairson swore a feud against the clan Mactavish, / Marched into their land to murder and to ravish, / For he did resolve to extirpate the vipers, / With four and twenty men and five and thirty pipers. / Too ran ach a' be, / Dal a gee a sorus, / Come a' rach an tuch, / And that's a Gaelic chorus'. This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune. The broadside was priced at one penny and published by the Poet's Box in Glasgow. At the foot of the sheet is a 'List of Newest Songs and Recitations' available from the publisher.
This ballad derives its humour from Lowland perceptions of Scottish Highlanders. Highland pronounciation of English is rendered with comical exaggeration. The stereotypes of Highlanders being warlike and brave, but also dedicated cattle drovers, are combined to humorous effect when MacPherson's men desert him to go and drive the cattle, leaving him to be killed. The Highlander's alleged prediliction for whisky is also mocked. While authors like Walter Scott and James MacPherson romanticised the Highlands, satire like this was also common, even in the work of famous poets like Robert Fergusson.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O! dark lowr'd the night on the wild distant heath; / And the wild raven croak'd out the bodings of death; / While the mood hid her beams in the clouds out o' woe, / Disdaining to gaze on the fields of Glencoe'. It was published by James Lindsay, 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration.
This ballad follows Flora as she desperately tries to find her lover, Donald, following the the Massacre of Glencoe. In the ballad tradition, Flora, upon finding her lover's body, dies of a broken heart: 'She fell on his body, and then did expire'. In February 1692, members of the Macdonald clan were brutally murdered for refusing to pledge allegiance to King William III. Campbell soldiers, acting on behalf of the government, murdered the clan chief, Alexander MacDonald of Glenoce, and around thirty of his men. Hundreds of MacDonald men, women and children fled to the hills for safety.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The moon had climbed the highest hill, / That rises o'er the source of Dee; / And from the eastern summit shed / Her silvery light on tower and tree'. A woodcut of a young woman holding aloft a birdcage whilst being looked at by an unusually large cat (or strangely shaped dog) decorates the top of the sheet. The sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow.
The lyrics for this ballad were written in 1772 by John Lowe. Lowe was tutor to the McGhie family, and wrote the song for Mary, one of the daughters. She had been engaged to a surgeon named Alexander (Sandy) Miller who was lost at sea. Lowe ended up in America, working first as tutor for George Washington's brother's family, then running an academy in Virginia. He later became an Anglican minister.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'On the banks of the Don where I wandered with pleasure, / Where life's smiling visage invites me to roam'. There are no publication details attached to this sheet, but a woodcut illustration has been included at the top of the sheet. It shows a young fishwife, standing on a beach, with her nets.
The narrator of this piece is reminiscing over his encounter with Mary, which occurred along the banks of the River Don. The woodcut at the top of the sheet does help enhance the understanding of the text, and would have been especially attractive to members of the audience who were illiterate or only semi-literate. The girl is intended to be young and comely. Her station and vocation in life and the nature of area, with the allusion to the beach and nets, are all clearly expressed here.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is divided into two named parts. The first part of the ballad is called 'The Meal Mongers intreagues and Resolutions', while the second half of the ballad is called 'The Buyers Answer'. The opening line of the first part reads: 'COME Willie I'll tell you the news'. In the second part of the ballad, the opening line is: 'Fire Brands of Satan are you then Resolv'd'. The first part of the ballad was sung to the tune of 'The meal was dear short-fine', while the second part of the ballad is sung to the tune of 'Death and the Lady'.
As a meal-monger was one who deals in meal, the setting for his ballad would have been that of a busy marketplace. While the meal-monger tells the buyer that his meal is of excellent quality, the buyer replies that the price he is charging amounts to extortion and that his meal is of poor quality. The price of meal was of vital importance in the eighteenth and nineteenth century, and many of the riots that took place during this era were food riots. This form of 'expostulation and reply' poetic structure, was a common literary device during this era.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'In a small country cottage by the side of a moor, / Oh there lived one Mary Mackree, / And she kept the sign of the Bell and the Boar, / And very good liquor sold she. / Mary being old, scare could hobble about, / She kept a servant girl to serve the liquor out, / As bonny a lass as ever you did see, /Sold ale to the customers of Mary Mackree.'
Relationships between the sexes are a very common subject in contemporary songs, and this was also the case with broadside ballads. The tone of such ballads could vary from deeply romantic to bawdy. 'Mary Mackree' is of the bawdier variety, describing how a maid is seduced by the son of her employer, who visits the maid's bedroom under the pretence of bringing her a posset to help her recover from an illness.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Adieu unto Barrhead, and to Neilston also, / Where the river Levern it sweetly does flow, / My poor aged mother, for ever farewell, / An exile for life is your poor Margaret Bell.' This ballad is to be sung to the tune of 'Braes of Strathblane'. It was published by Brown and Son, of 56 Trongate and 25 Nelson Street, Glasgow. A woodcut of the Ark adorns the top of the sheet.
This ballad tells the, probably true, story of Margaret Bell, from Renfrewshire, who fell pregnant and was treated very badly by the father. The devil whispered to her to kill her baby, as a way out of the abject poverty she found herself in. For this she was sentenced to be hung, but the locals took pity on her and petitioned for a lesser sentence. Margaret Bell was transported instead.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'As I stray'd o'er the common on Cork's rugged border, / While the dew-drops of morn the sweet primrose array'd, / I saw a poor female, whose mental disorder / Her quick-glancing eye and wild aspect betray'd.' It was published by Robert McIntosh of King Street, Calton, Glasgow, and includes an illustration at the top of the sheet.
This tragic ballad tells of the eviction of Mary Le More and her family, and how they suffered at the hands of a band of brutal soldiers. The work is now widely attributed to the Liverpool abolitionist poet Edward Rushton (1756-1814). In a collection of his poems published in 1806 Rushton covered the story of Mary in three poems. The second of the three poems in the 1806 edition, titled 'The Maniac', is reproduced here with the title 'Mary Le More'. The poem has also in the past been attributed to the Irish-born ballad-writer George Nugent Reynolds (1770-1802) and the Scottish poet Thomas Campbell (1777-1844).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'INto the month of March, / As I went to the North, / Beyond the Carnemont. / Far beyond Tay and Forth.' The text preceding it reads: 'THE NEVV BALLAD. / OF THE LASS OF PEATIES MILL. / To its own Proper Tune.'
It has been suggested, due to this sheet's place in its collection, that it was published in Glasgow in 1701. This is, however, now completely unverifiable. The lyrics to this piece differ from that composed by Allan Ramsay (1686-1757), although he used the same tune. His lyrics begin 'The lass of Peaty's Mill', and he is supposed to have written them whilst staying with Sir William Cunningham of Robertland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'ADIEU unto Barrhead, and to Neilston also, / Where the river Levern it sweetly does flow, / My poor aged mother, for ever farewell, / An exile for life is your poor Margaret Bell.' The broadside was published by James Lindsay of King Street in Glasgow. It is not dated.
'Margaret Bell's Lament' is narrated by a woman who is being transported for the murder of her illegitimate child. There are many broadsides on this subject. Due to the social stigma attached to illegitimate motherhood, infanticide among deperate single mothers was more common in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries than it is today. The usual sentence for the crime was death, but in this case the petitioning of the people of Paisley persuaded the Crown to commute Margaret Bell's sentence to transportation. This suggests that the was a great deal of sympathy and understanding among ordinary people for the plight of such women.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Good people give attention / To those truths I herewith mention, / And pour in full extension / Your sympathy to me.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
In this ballad, McGorran laments his impending execution and the murderous misdeeds that have brought him to this point. He admits to having been roused to such heights of 'cruel jealousy' by his wife and her lover that he drew 'the fatal knife'. Such tales of repentence and pleas for forgiveness and salvation were popular amongst the broadside readership. Street literature relating to crime was by far the most popular and outsold all other broadside genres.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'We'll sing you a song, and it wont be long, / If you listen to what we say / It's about two girls you know very well / And they live straight over the way. / There cheeks are as red as a piece of white chalk, / And they wear a Grecian bend; There's no mistake about it, / They're the mashers of Ramsey's Pend.' This song was published by the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee.
This ballad is a rather misogynistic satire on the two girls referred to in the title as 'The Mashers of Ramsey's Pend'. 'Masher' is an obsolescent expression for 'dandy', a word normally applied to men. The fact that 'masher' is applied here to two women seems to be additional, deliberate insult. The song presents the girls as grotesques with blue hair and red noses, 'covered in muck'. Even the description of them as the 'prettiest piece of potted head' is repellent: potted head is a traditional Scottish dish made from sheep's heads.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name it is Nell, quite candid I tell, / And I live near Coothill I will never deny, / I had a large drake, the truth for to speak, / That my grandmother left me and she going to die.'
'Nell Flaherty's Drake' is an anonymous Irish ballad from the nineteenth century. The drake of the title is believed to be a coded reference to Robert Emmet (1778-1803), who helped to plan and led an uprising against British rule in Dublin in 1803. The uprising went wrong after an explosion at an arms depot, and Emmet was captured and hanged for his part in the uprising and the assassination of the Lord Chief Justice. Nell Flaherty represents Emmet's fiance, Sarah Curran, (1782-1808). The author curses those (i.e. the British authorities) who killed Nell Flaherty's drake and urges the readers to keep up the fight. Irish Home Rule was a volatile subject in Britain in the nineteenth as well as the twentieth century, hence the coding in this song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Though far from thee, my mountain home, / my mountain home I love thee still, / As when my light steps were wont to roam, / To wander o'er my native hill, / I'll ne'er forget the happy lays, / Sung at evening's welcome hour, / Now the thought of Childhood's days, / Sheds a soft and soothing power.'
There is no indication on the broadside of where this song originates. The fact that it is held in a Scottish collection and that it refers to mountainous country might lead one to assume that it is a Scottish song, but this is not necessarily the case. Broadside ballads published in Scotland sometimes originated in the United States, reflecting increasing trans-Atlantic travel. Many more originated in Ireland, reflecting the large numbers of Irish immigrants to Lowland Scotland during the industrial revolution. Whatever its origins, this ballad's sentiments of native pride and evocative natural imagery would probably have guaranteed its popularity: these were common themes in broadside ballads.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I am a bold undaunted youth my name is John M'Cann, / I am a native of Donegal, was bred near sweet Strabane'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow (1860-90).
The theme of this sheet is the triumph of love over adversity - highlighted by the heiress Mary Neil eloping with John McCann. This was technically abduction, as she was the property of her father, and so McCann was imprisoned. They try again and escape to Quebec, where Mary is almost drowned. Eventually, Mary's father relents and invites John back to be lord of the manor. This story, set in Ireland and on a romantic theme, would probably have appealed to the immigrant Irish population who had settled in Glasgow.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'In a small country cottage by the side of a moor, / Oh there lived one Mary Mackree'. There is a note included which reads 'See 11', although there is no context given to this comment. A woodcut of the torso and head of a young highland lady has been included at the top of the sheet.
This broadside is a good testament to the fact that women kept public houses, and that it was accepted as normal in the society of the time. There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which refer to women making careers in public houses. This whole tale - Mary's son Dan tries to seduce her maid - is a common theme in broadsides. In this tale, unusually, each character receives a voice and the seduction is virtually endorsed as a result.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'My Nannie's Awa'' begins: 'Now in her green mantle blythe Nature arrays, / And listen the lambkins that bleat owre the braes'. 'Burns and his Highland Mary' begins: 'In green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers, / Sae enraptured and happy in each ithers arms'. This broadside was published by James Lindsay of King Street in Glasgow. It does not carry a price or a date of publication.
'My Nannie's Awa'' is a simple example of the pathetic fallacy at work. This is a literary term used to explain a tendency in poets and authors to describe nature in terms of personal emotions. Examples in this song are the narrator's description of autumn as 'pensive' and winter as 'dreary', words which reflect his own emotions at the loss of his lover. 'Burns and his Highland Mary' is a romantic song based around Robert Burns's (1759-96) love affair with 'Highland' Mary Campbell (1763-86), which ended with her tragically early death. The authors of the two songs are not identified on the sheet.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I've wandered my ain native isle, Caledonia, / O'er moor and o'er mountain, through valley and fen, / But nae pleasure like those at the clear crystal fountain, / By the banks o' the Forth, in sweet Nether Mill Glen.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Garland of Love', and was written by James Niven, author of 'Kinninie Braes'.
There are many broadside ballads extant that were written in praise of Scotland's countryside, but this is more skilfully constructed than most. The poem draws parallels between the short lives of the flowers in Nether Mill Glen and the transience of human beauty, but compares the spring that runs through the glen to a fountain of eternal love that will keep a young couple happy all their lives if they drink from it.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A douse, religious kintry wife, / That liv'd a quiet, contented life, / To show respect unto the priest / Wham she esteemed within her breast'. It is dated 'Saturday morning, July 15, 1871'. A note under the title informs the reader that 'Copies can always be had in the POET'S BOX, 80 London Street, Glasgow'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Part of this ballad takes the form of a dialogue between Margaret and the Minister. Upon arriving at the minister's house laden with gifts, Margaret is invited to stay for dinner. Anxious that she will show herself up in company, the minister finally persuades her to stay by suggesting she just follow his example at the dinner table. This kindly advice results in Margaret's humiliation, and the tale ends with her fleeing from the house. Whilst this humorous ballad would have proved entertaining for readers, it also offered a comment on the differences between the social classes - perhaps suggesting that never the twain should meet!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is comprised of two parts. The opening line of the first part reads: 'ALL ye who do desire to write'. In the second part of the ballad, the opening line is: 'Nature hath strain'd her utmost skill'. Below the title, there is a note stating that the ballad should be sung to a tune called 'My Love's a handsome shoe-maker'. This sheet was printed by John Reid of Pearson Cross, Edinburgh, in 1720.
The first part of this ballad is extremely erudite, at is provides its audience with an epic pageant of female characters who are renowned for their beauty. The awe-struck narrator continues to employ famous female characters from history, myth and literature as he struggles to do justice to his beloved's beauty. After invoking all these goddesses and spirits, he then states that his treasure is well known throughout Inveraray. Part two of the ballad provides its audience with a detailed description of his dearly beloved, using many images from nature to convey an impression of her comeliness and innocence.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Soft rolls Clyde's bonny silver stream, / Blow gentle breezes o'er yon lawn, / Bright Phoebus with his golden beams, / May cheer the birds while I do mourn. / The damask rose so bonny blows, / And honeysuckles may entwine, / Yet all are adding to my woes - / I've lost my lowland Caroline.' This sheet was published by James Lindsay of Glasgow but is not dated.
This broadside ballad is a song of mourning from a husband to his deceased young wife. The writer of this elegiac ballad laments that, although nature may have many wonders to offer, life is miserable without his loved one. The advertisement at the bottom of this sheet is especially interesting, as it gives a good illustration of the diversity that a broadside publisher could offer the public. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A soldier he returned again, / Back from a foreign shore, / He longed to see those loving ones, / For them he did adore.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song, can always be had the Poet's Box, / 190 and 192 Overgste, Dundee.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Tho' I'm laid up in port, and not outward bound, / In my upper works nothing is ailing; / My rudder and compass are both safe and sound, / And when called on I'm ready for sailing.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this popular song can always be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the ballad should be sung to an original tune. The sheet was printed on Saturday the 6th of August, 1870, and cost one penny.
Written from the viewpoint of a sailor who is home on shore leave, this romantic ballad is a loving celebration of the many virtues of Nancy, the sailor's wife. The faithful sailor proceeds to describe all the hardships that he encounters while away on a voyage, but always resolves these seas of troubles by thinking about Nancy, and the love that they share with one another. Underneath the ballad, there is an interesting list of other songs that are available for purchase, and detailed information about the procedure for buying these songs.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Plain John is my name, though they've made me Sir John, / A straight-forward man, when I have not got on / My big wig all so mealy and white'. The introduction reveals that the song was sung by his Majesty's Attorney-General to the tune 'The Black Joke'.
Although there is quite a lot of contextual information given on this sheet, it is still a little difficult for modern readers to understand. There are allusions to His Majesty, his Attorney-General and the 'Clique', as well as to Dudley and Placemen, so it probably relates to contemporary political events. This illustrates the broadside's role in conveying information. It is assumed that the audience will already be familiar with the background and so that information is pared down. Meanwhile, the rest of the space is given over to 'new information' which would be part of its sales appeal as well.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'Now in her green mantle blythe nature arrays, / And listen the lambkins that bleat owre the braes, / While birds warble welcome in ilka green shaw; / But to me its delightless - my Nannie's awa''. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow.
This ballad is a lament sung by a young man for his absent lover. Although the ballad highlights the many joys that nature can offer, it seems that the lovesick young man can no longer appreciate these joys, as he can only think about his departed lover. The advertisement at the bottom of this sheet is especially interesting, as it gives a good illustration of the diversity that a broadside publisher could offer the public. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Noo, I am a simple chappie and plainly you may see, / I have settled doon in to this toon, and would you credit me, / I have married got, it was my lot, I have got a decent.'
As with many broadsides, there is no further information about this ballad included on the sheet. It is, however, quite decorative in comparison to most others held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. The image, a rather grim and stark figure, does not seem entirely appropriate to the topic and tone of the lyrics. Woodcuts, however, were expensive to create and so one generic image was often used across many sheets. It also made the sheet a more competitive and attractive purchase.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Come all ye tender lovers till I relate my grief, / My darling's gone and left me with the small hopes of relief'. The top of the sheet carries a woodcut of a grand, classical-styled building, which is built over an archway. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
It is made clear in the lyrics that the characters adhere to the Roman Catholic religion, and so this distinction may have been important to, and had a greater meaning for, readers at the time. The lyrics recount a classic broadside tale of two lovers parted by distance. It would seem that the girl's lover has been forced to travel and resettle in America, where she hopes he will prosper. She, in turn, will wear widow's weeds and live in the hope of his return.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This murder ballad begins: 'COME all false hearted young men and listen to my song, / It's of a dreadful murder that lately has been done ; / On the body of a damsel fair, the truth I will unfold, / The bare relation of this deed will make your blood run cold.' It was published by Robert McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow, and includes a rather crude woodcut illustration.
Although no date has been provided on this broadside, Robert McIntosh was registered at the above address in the 1849 Edinburgh Directory. It is, therefore, safe to assume that this broadside was published in the mid-nineteenth century. Although in most cases broadsides reported local crimes and events, news of particularly gruesome or notable crimes often travelled the length of the country. In this case a murder committed near Manchester has reached a Glasgow publisher.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'My bonnie Meg, my jo, Meg, / When we were first acquaint, / A tighter hizzy never brush'd / The dew frae aff the bent'. The woodcut at the top of the sheet shows a well-to-do couple, seemingly arguing, in what appears to be a parlour.
This sheet deals with a common broadside topic - a shrewish wife. The husband is still very much in love with his wife, Meg, but he makes it clear that she is a much changed person compared to her youthful self. He does not, however, mention his own behaviour over the years or in their present situation, although he does refer to having made it through some tough times.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Draw near ilka wight, that licens'd to retail / A dribble o' spirits, an' porter, an ale, / While I sing o' a carle, a great mense to your trade, / Tho' he forty lang miles frae King Willie was bred.' There is no other information attached to this sheet.
There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which were written in praise of inn or tavern keepers. Most keepers are praised for their friendly manner and the quality of their beer. In this text, however, it is the location of Mungo's pub and the company he keeps which are highlighted. He appears to be a bachelor, who just keeps an open house. This seems to suit the other men in the area, as time well spent in a relaxing and convivial situation.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'INTO a morning as I went abroad / even for to see the Flowers a springing, / In ever bush there sate a Bird, / changing their notes were sweetly singing.' The text preceding it reads:  'A / Rare new Ballad / Entituled / My Husband has no courage in Him / To its own proper Tune.'
The second ballad begins: 'It fell about the Month of April / into the time of Lentran, / There were three old sogers, / and they fell to the talking. 'The text preceding it reads: 'In came Jonnie Paterson / Louping like a Ladie, / OR, / The Souldiers Reel. / To its own proper Tune.'
Broadsides were sold as the cheap entertainment of their day and even at that time were considered ephemera. This sheet would have been especially appealing as two songs could be bought for a penny, the usual cost, instead of one. It also meant a cheaper print run for the publishers as they could mix and match previously made up plates, but sell a whole new sheet!This ballad begins: 'I'll try and sing a verse, / Or two, on the topics of the day, / And tell you what I think is wrong. / And what I think's fairplay, / There's such funny thing accours, / Now a day's that fill me with surprise.' The text beneath the title reads: 'Wretten Composed and Sung by WILFORD TAYLOR, Comedian and Vocalist with emmense success, [Strictly Copyright,]'. The broadside was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
As the second line suggests, this ballad is concerned with the 'topics of the day'. The author, Wilford Taylor, is clearly a man of humanitarian principles. He condemns a judge for imprisoning a man for begging for bread. He also criticises hardline Tory policy against Irish Home Rule campaigners. The song was probably written around 1886 when the seventh Earl of Aberdeen, John Campbell Gordon was briefly Lord Lieutenant or Viceroy of Ireland. He held the same position from 1906 to 1915.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now John what makes thee look so shan, / Brush up and look couragious, Man. / We have mad many a Cog between us / E'en Fan De'el a Saul has seen us / And since that nearest Friends must part / Here's to your Health with a' my Heart...' The name of the publisher is not included. 'Shan' is a Scots word meaning 'pitiful'.
This ballad refers to the tragic story of Mrs McLeod, who was executed in Edinburgh in 1727, for the crime of forgery. It is not clear from the sheet who John Gibson actually was. However, his strenuous efforts to make Mrs McLeod confess and repent for her many sins suggest that he could be a minister, sent to 'the condemned cell' to make her see the light during her last hours. Many broadsides such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland?s collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all you thoughtless young men, a warning take by me, / And think upon my unhappy fate to be hanged upon a tree; / My name is William Corder, to you I do declare, / I courted Maria Marten, most beautiful and fair.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
This very dark ballad is mainly narrated from the viewpoint of a wealthy young gentleman called William Corder, who murdered his sweetheart, Maria Marten. The ballad is based on a chilling crime that took place in Polstead, Suffolk, in May 1827. After a brief courtship, Corder told Marten that he wished to marry her, and visited her family's home to inform them about the arrangements for the ceremony. Instead of taking her to Ipswich, however, he took her to a part of his premises called the Red Barn and murdered her. After being found guilty by the jury, Corder then confessed to the crime. He was executed on the 11th of August, 1828. A broadsheet published in London by James Catnach about this crime sold over one million copies.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Draw near ilka wight, that licens'd to retail / A dribble o' spirits, an' porter, an' ale, / While I sing o' a carle, a great mense to your trade, / Tho' he forty land miles frae King Willie was bred.'
Not only is this song written in broad and colloquial Scots, but the typesetting is not all that accurate either, making parts of it virtually unintelligible. It also illustrates the speed with which most of these sheets were conceived, produced and sold. This sheet celebrates the excellent atmosphere which the well-rounded and socially-adept publican, Mungo McGill, creates in his ale-house. Although he is praised for his standards and skills, his ability to mix with everyone appears to make him seem peculiar to most people.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside contains two separate ballads. The opening line of the first ballad reads: 'I am a sturdy beggar loon, weel kent the country through'. The opening line of the second ballad reads: 'As I walked out one morning all in the month of May'. This sheet was printed by James Kay of Glasgow and cost one penny. According to the National Library of Scotland's index of the Scottish Book Trade, James Kay's publishing business was located at 179 Argyll Street in 1844.
The first ballad on this sheet is a light-hearted travelling song, written from the viewpoint of a pedlar. Although the tone of this ballad is cheery and humorous, the diverse list of jobs and errands that the pedlar performs reveals much about rural society in Scotland at this time. Set in springtime, the second ballad tells of a lovesick Scottish lad whose love for a beautiful Irish lass, ends up with her parents threatening the suitor that they will send her back to Ireland unless he desists. The rest of the ballad consists of yearnful musings about the object of his desire.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside contains two separate ballads. The opening line of the first ballad reads: 'I am a sturdy beggar loon, weel kent the country through'. The opening line of the second ballad reads: 'As I walked out one morning all in the month of May'. This sheet was printed by James Kay of Glasgow and cost one penny. According to the National Library of Scotland's index of the Scottish Book Trade, James Kay's publishing business was located at 179 Argyll Street in 1844.
The first ballad on this sheet is a light-hearted travelling song, written from the viewpoint of a pedlar. Although the tone of this ballad is cheery and humorous, the diverse list of jobs and errands that the pedlar performs reveals much about rural society in Scotland at this time. Set in springtime, the second ballad tells of a lovesick Scottish lad whose love for a beautiful Irish lass, ends up with her parents threatening the suitor that they will send her back to Ireland unless he desists. The rest of the ballad consists of yearnful musings about the object of his desire.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside letter begins: 'MR JOHN DOWIE, Libberton's Wynd, Edinburgh. / DEAR JOHNNIE, / I cannot with-hold this tribute of my gratitude from you.' The letter is marked 'EDINBURGH, / 14th Sept. 1789', and is followed by a poem entitled 'Johnnie Dowie's Ale'.
This curious piece of comedy theatre is more like an advert for Johnnie Dowie's alehouse. The fact that an entertaining poem is included, perhaps confused people into buying before they realised it was a marketing ploy. Ale-houses brewed their own beer at the time, so advertising the quality and taste of it was marketing angle. Libberton's Wynd was also where most of the hangings in Edinburgh occurred and so there was probably a lot of money to made if the public knew where you were.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'COME Brother Conservatives, fill up your glasses, / And start to your feet with hearty hurra! / Tho no more we may draw our broad swords on the asses, / Our tricks and our cunning will win us the day.' An illustration of a haughty-looking man astride a horse that is too small for him, adorns the top of the sheet. He is waving at a mother and her two small children.
A note before the song mentions it was 'Sung, with great applause, at the last dinner given by the Edinburgh Sour Milks'. James, sometimes referred to as 'Jemmy' or 'Jamie' Aytoun, (1797-1881) was the Radical Party candidate in the 1841  parliamentary elections. This piece accuses him of having Tory sympathies and directs bitter satire at him, accusing him of being hypocritical and corrupt.
The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside relating to this incident, entitled 'Aytoun the Yeoman!, or, The Orator Left in the Lurch by One of his Own Voters'. There are several other sheets relating to Aytoun's political ambitions, at various times in the mid nineteenth century.This ballad begins: 'SCOTMEN ! In Auld Reekie born, / You, who fools and tyrants scorn, / Welcome, this bright April morn, / To do the needful here !'
The Mound in Edinburgh was created in 1769, after Nor' Loch had been drained six years earlier, by the rubble and back-fill from the new housing estate or the New Town. This building work had been ongoing for at least two years, when one of the engineers, Boyd, laid a temporary bridge across the gap to shorten the route between the two towns. The railway was eventually run underneath the Mound during the 1840s, and the National Gallery and Royal Institute were built here afterwards. This broadside probably relates to the controversy over the construction of the National Gallery. There was a widely-held view that the Mound was being ruined by the new buildings. The mention of a 'primrose' in the penultimate verse, may be a veiled reference to Mr. Bouverie Primrose, secretary of the Board of Manufactures who were responsible for financing the building of the Gallery.
The fact that the real point of this poem is difficult to understand for modern readers, and that there is no contextual information included for the reader's benefit, illustrates the broadside's function in society. It was immediate, topical and disposable - momentary entertainment on the issues of the day!Verse 1: 'Come, my lads, let us mount and go, / For I'm going home, will ye gang or no? / For the drink's a' done; and the reckonings paid, / And I'm going home to my ain fire-side.' The publisher of this broadside was Muir, but the town and the date of publication are not cited.
'My Ain Fireside' may be intended to share the same melody as the celebrated song of the same name by Elizabeth Hamilton (1758-1816), but the subject matter of this song is far earthier. Hamilton's 'My Ain Fireside' celebrates humilty economy and sobriety, themes taken further in her didactic novel, The Cottagers of Glenburnie' (1808). By contrast, the song on this broadside advocates enjoying a drink, or several drinks, as long as they are not taken at the expense of a happy home life.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is sung to the tune of the 'Laird of Cockpen' and begins: 'To get drunk at Nairday is counted nae sin, / Although that your neighbours be leadin' you blin', / For wasting of money there's naebody cares; / They run and they'll roar like the Russian bears.' The chorus begins: 'And now we've to enter another New Year, / When little is thought on but whisky and beer'. A woodcut illustration showing a man standing next to large kegs of whisky, rum and brandy has been included at the top of this sheet.
This ballad, although light-hearted, demonises the drinking of alcohol - particularly the excesses of the New Year. The last line calls out for intemperance to be banished 'far from our shore'. The Temperance Movement was a phenomenon that first appeared in the nineteenth century. Supporters of the movement, believing that alcohol was responsible for a great many of the social ills of the day, strongly advocated abstinence from alcohol.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: ' BLyth Jockie young and gay, / Is all my hearts delight, / He's all my talk by Day, / And in my Dreams by night. / If from the Lad I be, / It's Winter then with me, / But when he's with me here, / 'Tis Summer all the year.' The text under the title reads, 'A song much in Request' and 'To an Excellent new Tune'. The name of the publisher has not been included.
A popular song, this would have already been known to a large section of the broadside-buying public. This version, however, was to be sung to a new tune. With no musical notation supplied, people relied on the chapmen and patterers who were selling the broadsides to sing the ballads as they wandered through the streets. This enabled people to familiarise themselves with the melody and also, in a society where literacy was by no means universal, memorise the words.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Look kind on me, I'm sure you ought, / I dinna feel just richt, sirs; / I'm rather bashfu', 'tis my faut, / My first attempt the nicht, sirs. / At me I see the laddies steal / Sly looks of admiration; / But ladies ye alane can feel / My delicate situation.' This was to be sung to the tune of 'Up in the Morning?s no for Me'. The broadside was published on 27th June 1874, priced at one penny, and published by the Poet?s Box in Glasgow.
This comic ballad relies on the stereotype of fishwives being terrible gossips. In the first verse the narrator pretends to be shy, but from the start of the second verse she recounts her life story in minute detail, digressing wildly and even returning after the dance interlude to add three more 'encore' verses. The way the sheet is laid out, with the dance and encores clearly marked, confirms that this ballad was very much intended for public performance.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'We from childhood played together, / My dear comrade Jack and I; / We would fight each other's battles, / To each other's aid we'd fly'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box of 224 Overgate, Dundee.
At the bottom of the sheet is a notice advertising other items published by the Poet's Box, such as recitations and stump speeches. The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I am a freeman, tight and sound, / Of Edinbro's good town, / For trade and lads of honest heart, / A place of high renown'. The song is by 'C. M'K.' and should be sung to the tune 'A begging we will go'. There is a woodcut depiction of a well-dressed lady resting, with her basket, under a leafy tree in the countryside.
The name 'Whig', given to the 'Country Party', was taken from a group of non-Conformist Scottish outlaws, the 'Whiggamores'. This non-conformity and rebellion suited the party's aims at the time. The Whigs, by and large, were anti-Catholic and anti-Monarchy. They were often staunch puritans and they campaigned for parliamentary powers to outweigh those of the monarchy. This laissez-faire and more democratic attitude, however, eventually won them more support in the growing industrial centres.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'HArd Fate that I should banisht be / And Rebell called with Scorn, / For serving of a Lovely Prince, / As e'er yet was Born, / O the Broom the Bonny Broom, / The Broom of Cowding Knows, / I wish his Frinds had Stayed at home / Milking there Dadys Ewes.'
The narrator of this ballad appears to be someone who has been exiled for supporting a Jacobite rising. It is more likely that the ballad refers to the 1715 rising in support of James Stewart, 'The Old Pretender', than the 1745 rising of 'Bonnie Prince' Charles Edward Stewart. Despite the ballad's Jacobite sympathies, verse eight praises the Hanoverian King George, probably to prevent the printer being accused of treason. However, a later hand has changed 'George' to 'James'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I crossed Forth, I crossed Tay, / I left Dundee, and Edinborrow, / I saw nothing there worth my Stay, / and so I bad them all Good-morrow . . . ' Below the title, a note states that this ballad is sung 'To it's own Proper Tune &c'.
Narrated by a young woman, this romantic ballad tells the story of her love for a 'Bonny Highland Laddie'. The narrator describes the clothes her beloved wears, and mentions how she would love to wrap him up in her plaid. Following this, she defiantly states how his lowly rank is of no consequence to her, such is the degree of her love for him. The young woman concludes her ballad by announcing that, once they had arrived in Stirling for their marriage, her 'tocher' (a woman's dowry) consisted of being lovingly embraced up by him in his own Highland plaid.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Nymph. / Loves fairest Youth, in blooming May, / stood Musing by a River Side, / Where the Bright Goddess of the Day, / Had deck'd the Plain in Glorious Pride: / Then Laurels green crown'd bonny Jean, / And secret Flames bred Constancy; / Almighty Jove soon from above, / Fix'd Love's sweet Passions in her Eye.' This broadside was published by John Reid of Pearson's Close in Edinburgh, in 1719.
'The New Way of Bonny Jean' is a ballad whose events and meaning are shrouded in classical allusion and metaphor. The verses seem to chart the seduction of a young girl, Jean. At the start, Jean is depicted in an Edenic situation by a river, clad in laurel and at one with nature. After being pierced with Cupid's arrow, however, 'She leaves the Grove to follow Love'. The final verse implies that Jean has suffered a fall from grace, and now inhabits a place 'where soft perfuming flames do burn'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Good people all of Glasgow, pray listen unto me, / Whilst I relate this woeful tale and mournful tragedy'. This sheet was printed by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow (1852-59).
This broadside tells the familiar story of a virtuous but warm girl, Jane, who was tricked in love by the wealthy blade, John. Unfortunately, she died trying to give birth to their illegitimate child. It has become clear from marriage and baptismal entries that it was normal for couples to live together upon betrothal. It has also become clear from cemetery excavations that between a quarter and half of the female population, before the introduction of modern hospitals, died in childbirth.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This ballad begins: '[VI]CTORIA's doun to Embro' toun, / The Queen o' the North to see, / And a' are join'd in heart and mind / To welcome her wi' glee'. It was to be sung to the tune of 'Up, an' Waur them a', Willie', and cost one penny to buy.
This ballad appears to revolve around the reception Queen Victoria received upon her arrival in Edinburgh, during her 1842 tour of Scotland. Although the Lord Provost, James Forrest, was meant to lead a welcoming party to greet the sovereign, there was some confusion over the date of her arrival and they failed to make an appearance. In this 'New Song' the rather unfortunate incident is blamed on the actions of the then Prime Minister, Robert Peel (1788-1850). The ballad goes on to attack some of the reforms that were introduced by Peel during his time as home secretary and prime minister.
The song is a parody of the traditional Jacobite ballad 'Up and Warn A', Wullie', which, according to Robert Burns, was the warning of a Highland clan to arms. It was referred to by Lowlanders as 'Up and Waur Them A', Willie', and in this version has been changed to 'Up an' rin awa' Robie'.Verse 1 begins: '[VI]CTORIA doun to Embro' toun, / Queen o' the North to see, / And a' are joined in heart and mind'. The song should be sung to the tune 'Up, An' Waur Them A', Willie' and would have sold for a penny a copy.
Queen Victoria paid her first visit to Scotland in 1842 after the precedent was set by George IV in 1822. She was officially welcomed to her Northern Kingdom in Edinburgh, although the procession did not go entirely smoothly here. Stands collapsed, there was a dangerous security mix-up and one of Scotland's earls was run over by her carriage! These incidents, however, already added to the already prolific volume of material written in her honour - such as this anonymous poem.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'VICTORIA's doun to Embro' toun, / The Queen o' the North to see, / And a' are join'd in heart and mind / To welcome her wi' glee; / But our Duke, and Peel, that sleeky chiel, / The management hae ta'en, / And honest Leith - in spite her teeth - / She's slighted been again.' The song was to be sung to the tune 'Up, an' Waur Them A', Willie'. The broadside was priced at one penny. It does not carry the name of the publisher or the place of publication.
This ballad refers to Queen Victoria's (reign: 1838-1901) first tour of Scotland, in 1842. The narrator criticises her advisers, The Duke of Buccleuch and Robert Peel, the prime minster, for hurrying the Queen off to Edinburgh instead of encouraging her to stop and greet the crowds that had turned out for her arrival at Granton Pier. The narrator also mocks Edinburgh's Lord Provost, James Forrest, who missed the queen's entrance altogether. This incident became the subject of its own satirical ballad, 'Jemmie Forrest'. Despite the inauspicious start, Victoria's tour turned out a success, amd thereafter she became the monarch who re-established strong royal connections with Scotland.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: ONce in a Morning Sweet and Fair, / as I went forth to take the Air, / I spip'd a Nimph without Compare, / was following the Gaberlunyman.' This ballad was to be sung 'To its own Proper New Tune'. The broadside carries no date or place of publication.
In medieval Scotland, a 'Gaberlunyman', more commonly 'Gaberlunzie Man', was a licensed beggar and beadsman, who would pray for the souls of others for a fee. The word 'gaberlunzie' is believed to have come from the French words 'gaban', referring to a sleeved, hooded cloak, and 'laine', meaning 'wool'. The cloaks these men wore were blue, so they were also known as 'bluegowns'. This song probably predates another song about the 'Gaberlunzie Man' in Allan Ramsay's 'Tea-Table Miscellany' of Scots songs, which was first published in 1724.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Good people pay attention / To these my humble rhymes, / About the state of Trade, / And those shocking dear times'. This poem was  written by John Wilson, Glasgow. The sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
It is relatively unusual to find an author's name attached to a broadside as most of the sheets remained anonymous. This was a trade-off as it was cheap and quick to have work published this way. It was likely that John Wilson was the compiler of 'The songs of Scotland' published in the early 1840s. He is the subject of another song of this site 'Scotia's dirge' which laments his death in 'America' (probably QuebecCity ) in 1849. Wilson was best known as a tenor, successful in Covent Garden and Drury Lane, London and throughout the eastern seaboard of North America. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'Oh! Reform now it is the rage, / Wherever you may go; / Mr. Bright now of the present age, / The seed began to sow.' The chorus begins: 'So good people all, on you I call, / And mark what I do say'. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
The nineteenth century was a time of great social and political reform. Amongst other things, every working-class male householder received the vote (1867 Reform Act) and measures were put in place to tackle issues such as poor health, poverty, education and working conditions. This song light-heartedly pokes fun at the notion of 'reform fever'. 'For to Reform Lord Derby's bill', in the final verse, possibly refers to a bill that was introduced by Lord Derby in 1830s to abolish slavery.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I went to Mallinger Fair / with my Battel of Bear, / I met with young Peggie, / who's Beautie was clear. / Ratting a rew.' The text preceding it reads: 'OR, / The Female-Dear-Joy tricked of her Maiden-Head. / To a New Irish Tune.'
Although the words are written down on this sheet implying they would be read, many more, mainly illiterate, people would have had access to the information carried here. This was due to the public and group-based nature of broadside entertainment. As a result this song still exhibits features of the oral tradition, such as short verses and an easy repetitive chorus, so that it can be easily remembered. (Mallinger is probably an old spelling of Mullingar, Co. Westmeath, Ireland).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'Oh! The gallant Sir John is a Knight of renown, / And from London post-haste he has lately come down, / Having fairly got out of that innocent scape, / Of the Banners, and Mottos, and bits of Black Crape'. A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the traditional tune, 'The Young Lochinvar'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Jamie Aytoun suggests that it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Illustrated with a woodcut that contains Joan of Arc's famous motto, 'Without fear and without reproach', this political ballad refers to an electoral contest in Edinburgh between James Aytoun (1797-1881) and Sir John Campbell. Written in the mock-heroic style of a battle between two knights, the writer certainly appears to favour Campbell over Aytoun. While it is known that Aytoun was a well known member of the Radical Party in Edinburgh in the 1830s and 40s, there is less information about who Campbell was - though he might well have been a candidate for the Whig Party. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains many broadsides that report on political contests in Edinburgh during this period.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Good people all of Glasgow, pray listen unto me, / Whilst I relate this woeful tale and mournful tragedy'. The woodcut at the top of this sheet shows an Irish leprechaun reading an outsize book.
This ballad addresses the common theme of innocence deceived, through the story of Jane and John. John, the rakish, moneyed blade, meets with the good and virtuous Jane in Glasgow, whereupon he persuades her into a relationship with him. He eventually drops her, but her despair is heightened by the knowledge of her pregnancy. The broadside ends on the practical, if not necessarily appropriate, scene of the girl's death in childbirth, the comment being that she no longer has to live in sin, while John, oblivious to the misery he caused, continues with his life.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.The first verse reads: 'You gallant sons of freedom that come from Erin's island, / Come listen to a verse or two, its worthy of your smiling, / A battle was fought in Cumberland - a battle too most cruel, / It was between M'Lusky bold and the brave Anthony Suel.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
During the years of industrialisation, emigration from Ireland to Scotland reached record levels as the Irish travelled in search of work. At the same time, broadside producers became aware of the arrival of this new audience and began producing sheets that would appeal to them. This included news reports from Ireland and ballads recalling the beauty of Erin and the bravery of the Irish. Unfortunately, it also led to broadsides that played on the fears and prejudices of people who, in their ignorance, were afraid and suspicious of these new arrivals.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This song begins: 'Good people pay attention / To these my humble rhymes, / About the state of Trade, / And those shocking dear times'. The chorus begins: 'Things are so high, poor people cry, / Such times was ne'er before'. It was written by John Wilson of Glasgow, and published by the printer and wholesaler, James Lindsay, of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
This light-hearted song bewails the rising prices that are one consequence of the war. As with many broadsides, this one assumes a certain degree of knowledge amongst the readership and, as such, does not actually name the war in question. Although this can at times be confusing for the modern-day reader, it would have made sense to a contemporary audience. After lamenting these 'Dear Times', the author makes his own plea: 'Now, to conclude, and make an end / Unto my humble lines. / You know with us poor singers / It is very hard times. / But to live, and let live, / Is a maxim you all know, / So I hope you'll buy a song from me, / Before that you do go'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad sheet begins: 'Air, ? "Welcome Royal Charlie". / Gude news we meet in ilka street, ? "MACAULAY'S cause speeds rarely;" / For ilka fae ,twa friend's we hae'.
The tune 'Welcome Royal Charlie' was a well-known Jacobite tune, although its author and date are obscured by the anonymity which most Jacobite supporters adopted to protect themselves. It did, however, enjoy more publishing popularity in England and Ireland, especially, than in Scotland.
The references to Macaulay, Lyon and Nick, in the lyrics, are now a little obscure, although the whole piece seems to refer to some sort of support or vote. The reference to 'Reikie' would suggest that it is set in Edinburgh, taken from the nickname 'Auld Reekie'.This ballad begins: 'FAREWELL to Lochaber, and farewell my Jean, / Where heartsome with thee I've mony a Day been; / For Lochaber no more, Lochaber no more, / We'll may be return to Lochaber no more.' This ballad is sung to the tune of 'Lochaber no more', and there is a generic woodcut scene of hunting at the top of the page.
The tune to this piece is believed to have been based on the Irish air, 'Limerick's Lamentation'. The majority of scholars believe the original was adapted by the Irish harpist, Thomas Connellan (1640-1698) although it has recently been suggested that Myles O'Reilly (b. 1635), another Irish harpist, may have made these changes. The lyrics were written by Allan Ramsay (1686-1757), and although he was not a declared Jacobite supporter, they do reveal his Jacobite sympathies.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'ADIEU, my Celia, Oh adieu! / Adieu my only Treasur!' The text preceding the ballad reads: 'To the Tune of, Peggy I must love thee. / The Words, by Mr. Ramondon, Senior.' There are two woodcuts at the top of the sheet.
Very little is known about Mr Ramondon, Senior, except that he was a prolific broadside lyricist. 'Celia' was a popular pastoral literary motif, during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. There was a resurgence in interest in the classical period and in retelling simple romances, during this period. The name 'Celia' appealed as it fulfilled both functions, stemming from the Latin Caelius which had connotations of heaven. Its use was lost during the Middle Ages, but it was rediscovered and then pioneered by Shakespeare in his play, 'As You Like It'.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.Verse 1: 'I'M one of the new police, egad, / The servant maids declare, / There's not a chap in all the force, / can sturt with such an air; / My gloves of white, my coat of blue, / My diginity increase, / And every gesture shows to you. / That I'm one of the new police.' This broadside is not dated and does not carry the name of the publisher or the place of publication.
'The new police' probably refers to the municipal police forces that began to be established in Great Britain in the 1830s. Robert Peel's Metropolitan Police Act of 1829 set up the first modern police force, in London, and the Municipal Corporations Act of 1835 extended the provision for similar forces to be set up across the country. The new police was not universally popular, and the satirical poem on this broadside suggests that the force attracted corrupt and violent men, and that it was designed to spoil the enjoyment and leisure of ordinary people.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Of a' the airts the wind can blaw, / Out o'er Benlomond's hill; / She says she loe's me best of a',  / The lass of Paities's Mill. / My love she's like the red red rose, / That's newly sprung in June; / Behind yon hills where Lugar flows, / And the banks o' bonnie Doon.'
As the title suggests, this is a song composed of lines and images from various famous Scots songs. Several of the source songs are by Robert Burns, including  'Of a' the airts', Ca' the yowes', 'My love is like a red red rose' and 'Ye banks and braes of bonnie Doon'. Other songs that the composer of this medley has borrowed from include 'The lass of Patie's mill' by Allan Ramsay and 'Sweet Jessie of Dunblane' by Robert Tannahill. The tune to which this medley was to be sung is not noted.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ?Sin? my uncle?s dead, I?ve lads anew / Wha? ne?er cam here before to woo / But to the laddie, I?ll prove true / that lo?ed me first O ony o?.
This is a ballad about a girl who is faithful to her humble ?Johnny? and who spurns the advances of the local laird. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'What Moonshine or Trade-wind hath blown thee here, / Loadstone of Trade, why did the Skipper Stear / Thy Vessel for to Harbour at this Tree, / And failing down our Coasts cry Helmalee.' Following on from the title, there is some text explaining the motive for writing this ballad, some scribbled notes and a dedication in Latin. Although no publisher is named, the sheet was printed in 1724.
With its allusions to the bible and classical myths, this panegyric humorously employs lofty similes to create a mock-epic dedicated to a man named Robert Cowan. Despite the content provided in the sheet's introduction, unfortunately, the broadside does not offer very much information regarding the fine details behind the situation. However, it appears that Cowan was involved in the shipping trade, and had defrauded his creditors - hence the poem's references to smugglers and pirates. The author appears to draw a parallel between a perilous ocean voyage and Cowan's hazardous trip to the Tron to face his creditors. The ominous mentioning of Captain John Dalgleish, meanwhile, is a darkly humorous reference to the famous Edinburgh lock-man and hangman.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A PADDY once in Greenock town, / For Glasgow city he was bound, / Staring all round and round, / At length he saw the Railway.' A woodcut illustration of a man carrying two guns has been included at the top of the sheet. Standing next to him is a dog or some other type of animal. Sometimes used in a derogatory way, 'Paddy' is a familiar form of the name Patrick or an informal name for an Irishman.
Interestingly, but possibly unintentionally, this ballad changes from third to first person halfway through the railway journey. 'Paddy' suddenly takes over the narrative himself and explains the events following the train ride. Although he talks of working through the harvest after arriving in Glasgow, there is also mention of him returning home to Ireland. Paddy's travels in search of work were probably fairly typical of the thousands of migrant workers who travelled from Ireland to Scotland in search of employment, particularly during the nineteenth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The pig is in the mire, and the cow is on the grass, / And a man without a woman is no better than an ass'. The reader is directed to sing this song to the 'Air - 'Old Zipcoon'. There is a woodcut included above the title which shows a hooded and shawled girl, carrying a basket, walking along a country path.
'Old Zipcoon' or 'Old Zip Coon' seems to have been a name which was used for any tune to which an 'Old Zip Coon' quadrille could be danced. As a result of its generic name, tunes which fitted this timing were probably quite widely and well known. The chorus to this song uses the phrase 'Arrah cushla', which was a popular tag line amongst broadsides. This would have made it easier to remember the song and shows how many ideas were 'shared' amongst authors.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I hear the people sing about the Drunkard's raggit wean, / As I wander through the streets, quite dejected and alane, / Baith hungry, cauld, and raggit, and nae frien's at a' hae I'. It is not clear from the introduction whether John Wilson of Glasgow was the publisher or author, or both, of this sheet.
As the Industrial Revolution's success took on a life of its own, it brought with it, for the workers, poverty and the danger of industrial injuries and deaths. There was also a move during the nineteenth century towards expressing Christian piety and British superiority through charity. As a result, orphans, servants and widows gained a new public popularity and exposure.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'Was there ever sic a lassie kent as oor wee Kate? / There's no a wean in a' the toon like oor wee Kate; / Baith in an' out, at kirk and schule she rins at sic a rate, / A pair o shoon list last a month wi poor wee Kate.' Below the title we are told that 'Copies can always be had at the Poet's Box, 192 OVERGATE, DUNDEE'. 'Shoon' means 'shoes'.
This light-hearted ballad tells of a family's humorous concern regarding the tomboyish behaviour of their wee lassie, Kate. The ballad provides the reader with a litany of her mischievous scrapes, though the writer concedes that Kate is just full of life rather than an ill-behaved child. In short, the ballad is a celebration of the joys and tribulations that a lively young girl can bring to a family. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'While taking a crack ower a guid social drap, / In a public-house near to the station / Blawing up their heads about my great deeds, / And other important things o' the nation'. It was published in Dundee by the Poet's Box.
The ballad uses a slightly comic style to tell what is really quite a serious tale. In this song an expectant father is drinking with his friends when he is told his wife has gone into labour, and it is an 'unco fat bairn'. He runs home and realises he must fetch the midwife or his wife will die. It is never revealed whether mother and child survive the ordeal.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Now Maggy dear, I do hear you have been on the spree, / Where is my whole week's wages gone, I pray come tell to me'. A note at the top states that the sheet was 'Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Stationer, &c,, 9 King Street, Glasgow'.
James Lindsay had one of the biggest printers in Glasgow, and his business ran for over 50 years, at various addresses. He was at King Street between 1860 and 1894. The Glasgow Directory for 1847 also has him registered as a 'Paper and Rag Merchant, Rope and Twine Manufacturer'. With fierce competition from other firms, printers and publishers often diversified. Some even sold the ink residue from their presses as shoe blacking!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Now, Maggy dear, I do declare, / You have been on the spree, / Where is my whole weeks' wages gone, / I pray now tell to me.'
This humorous conversation between a man, who is questioning how his wages are spent, and his wife, who explains it in full, is rather entertaining. It must have been amusing for the audience. It remains today as an illuminating list of household goods and maintenance and their expenses. It also reinforces, both for contemporary readers and those today, that a wife's role at the time, was in the home, while her husband was the working breadwinner. A further enlightening glimpse of women's education is also provided, as the wife is praised for good housekeeping and can reckon more than adequately.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Should Old Acquaintance be forgot, / and never thought upon, / The flames of Love extinguished, and fully past and gone.' The text preceding it reads: ' An excellent and proper New Ballad, Entituled, / OLD LONG SYNE / Newly corrected and amended, with a large and new / Edition of several excellent Love Lines. / To be sung with its own proper Musical Sweet Tune.'
There have been a variety of airs and lyrics published under the name 'Old Long Syne' or 'Auld Lang Syne'. Debate rages over whether the first tune originated in England, but no firm conclusions have been drawn. There are various versions of the words, the most famous being those composed by Allan Ramsay (1686-1757) and Robert Burns (1759-1796). These versions, however, are both different to this copy. These lyrics were copied across many broadsides and were eventually formally printed by James Watson in 1711.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHen Vesperus with Vitage gray, / Had darkened all our Hemisphere,' and ends, unusually, with: 'AMEN'. It was supposed to be sung to its own proper tune.
'The Old World' is a song about the decline of society's morals due to increasing materialism and corruption in the Establishment. Reactionary songs were common after any big revolutions in Scottish society, for example the Reformation, the Union of the Crowns or the Union of Parliaments. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'I love it, I love it, and who shall dare / To chide me for loving that old arm chair: / I've treasured it long as a noble prize, / I've bedewed it with tears, and embalmed it with sighs'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
A woodcut illustration has been included of a well-dressed woman sitting on an armchair, with a younger woman at her side. This would have added to the appeal of this particular sheet, and probably helped sales.
The armchair in this ballad replaces the sweetheart as an object of affection. Whilst the owner of the armchair laments the death of his or her mother whilst sitting in the chair, an undying and desperate love for the chair is declared: 'But I love it, I love it, and cannot tear / My soul from loving that old arm chair'. By choosing to idolise an old armchair, the author parodies the traditional themes of tragic and unrequited love found in so many ballads.These ballads begin: 'Proudly the note of the trumpet is sounding, / Loudly the war cries arise on the gale, / Fleetly the steed by Loch Suilig is bounding, / To join the thick squadrons in Saimear's green vale';  'My name is Jamie Raeburn, / In Glasgow I was born, / My place and habitation / I was forced to leave in scorn.' The broadside was priced at one penny and published by James Kay of Glasgow.
'O'Donnell Abu!' is a song about the wars between Protestant Elizabethan troops and Ireland's native and Catholic clans, led by Hugh O'Donnell, in the 1590s. The tune for O'Donnell Abu was composed in the early part of the 19th century by Joseph Haliday, a man from Carrick-on-Suir, Co. Tipperary. He was bandmaster of the Cavan militia. Michael McCann, a young Galway man, added words to the music. The composition first appeared  in 'The Nation' of January, 1843 and was then called 'The Clan Connell War Song'. 'Jamie Raeburn' is a traditional song about a young Glasgow baker reputedly falsely convicted of theft, and transported. The song is still performed today by the Scottish folk group the 'Tannahill Weavers'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Now Maggy dear, I do hear you have been on the spree. / Where is my whole week's wages gone, I pray come tell to me / When I come home at night I get no smell of drink on you, / Yet I wish to know how you lay out my one pound two.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a young man begging before a seated gentleman. A woman stands to one side and a windmill is visible in the background.
At a time when married women generally stayed at home and 'kept house', it was common practice for the woman of the house to be handed a portion of her husband's weekly wages for the housekeeping. In this light-hearted ballad, Maggy's husband questions her over the spending of his wages. He appears to believe the idle chit-chat of neighbours and accuses her of misspending it. What follows is a complete breakdown of the weekly expenditure, and his humble apologies for doubting her.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You sons of Old Scotia, now show yourselves true, / Hoist up the thistle, with the buff and the blue, / All for the sake of the shamrock so green, / M. P. O'Connell he soon will be here'. The piece was written by John McLean, coalminer. It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh. 
This piece appears to have been written specially to announce the arrival in Edinburgh of the Irish politician and rebel Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847). O'Connell was a campaigner for Catholic Emancipation and the Repeal of the Irish Union with Great Britain, subjects which would have struck a chord with many Scots. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Och hey, Johnnie Lad! / Ye're no sae kind's ye should ha'e been, / Och hey, Johnnie lad!' Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut illustration of a well-dressed man holding a sword behind his head.
As with many traditional folk songs, there are a number of different versions of this ballad in existence, including one featured in Volume IV of the 'Scots Musical Museum' (1792), under the title 'Hey, how my Johnie Lad'. It begins: 'Hey, how my Johnie lad, / ye're no sae kind's ye sud hae been / Gin your voice I had na kent, / I cou'd na eithly trow my een.' Long before they were ever written down and recorded, traditional ballads and stories were passed down through the generations by word of mouth. A consequence of this was that variations naturally crept in with each telling.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'AN orator was found in Nottinghamshire, / Who for his great Parts was summon'd to appear / At Court, to give the necessary assistance there.' The text preceding the ballad reads: 'An Excellent / New SONG, / BEING / The Intended Speech of a Famous Orator.' It was published in 1711.
Queen Anne (1702-1714) had signed the Act of Settlement in 1701, which angered Scotland as it approved the succession of the House of Hanover and not the original Stuart line. To end the dispute, the Parliaments were unified in 1707. The bickering continued however, with the Tories supporting the Stuarts and the Whigs the Hanoverians. In 1711 the Whig majority could not reach an agreement with the Tories and so Anne was forced into creating peers for political purposes. This not only weakened the royal prerogative but caused a little unrest, as expressed here.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name is Norval. On the Grampian hills / My father feeds his flocks; a frucal swain; / Whose constant cares were to increase his store, / And keep his only son, myself, at home.' The sheet was published by the Poet's Box, but it is not clear where.
John Home's (1722-1808) tragic play, 'Douglas', was based on this ballad. It tells the story of the infant son of Douglas, who is supposed dead by his parents. Old Norval, a shepherd, finds and brings up the boy, who saves his stepfather, Lord Randolph's, life and is then reunited with his mother. Randolph's heir, Glenalvon, however, is not happy about having his inheritance threatened and puts an end to Young Norval's life. In despair, Lady Randolph throws herself from a cliff.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'COLD and raw the North did blow, / Bleak in the morning early; / All the trees were hid with snow / Covered with winter early'. A rather crude woodcut has been included on this sheet depicting a man and woman on horseback. The woman has just escaped across the river, while her pursuer looks on in frustration. There is a town and a hill in the background of the image.
This altercation between a reluctant English maid and Scots man is given very little context other than their interaction. The maid eventually escapes from the man across the river, taking some of his money with her. The woodcut at the top would have increased the sheet's perceived value. It would also have helped enhance the appreciation of the ballad, as it sums up the final scene in the narrative.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Dark and dismal is this night, / Ah! when will morning come? / Ah! where's my lover gone to-night? / And left me all alone?' This ballad was sung to the tune of 'Alice Gray'.
The composer of this ballad, John Young, combined his writing with publishing and working as a Professor of Poetry in St Andrews - presumably at the university. Seemingly written in March 1852, the ballad aims to win our sympathy for poor Nancy Young, who has been abandoned by the husband that she loves so much. The tone of the ballad (as reflected in the song's imagery) is very much one of abandonment and hopelessness, with Nancy seeking the bliss of death. Interestingly, an emotional footnote at the bottom of the sheet reveals that the ballad is dedicated to 'all the Friends of the Poor'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ''Twas one cold winter's night; when the wind / Blew bitterly 'cross the wild moor, / When poor Mary came with her child / Wandering home to her own father's door'. No publication details are on the sheet. A woodcut of a woman and child feeding birds decorates the top of the sheet.
This song tells the tragic tale of homeless Mary and her child, who seek refuge at her father's house. Because of the noise of the wind howling outside he does not hear her shouts and Mary and her child freeze on the doorstep. Mary dies overnight, although the child survived for a short time, but 'to its mother went soon'. Tales of tragedy, more usually based around love and romance, are a common theme for broadside ballads.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Twas just one year ago today / That I remember well / I sat down by dear Nelly's side / And a story she did tell . . . ' Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, OVERGATE, DUNDEE'.
Set in Tennessee, this rather unusual broadside tells its audience about the deaths of a father and his daughter. Interestingly, however, the father in this story seems to have been a black man, which is unusual for a broadside published in Scotland. The emphasis placed on the word 'free' is interesting, and could be interpreted as a comment that Old Jeff was a slave while living in Tennessee. The grieving tone of the ballad is highlighted by the mourning narrator's desire to find shelter underneath a weeping willow - a tree has been associated with sorrow and bereavement since ancient times.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Ye working men come join with me, / And let us sing with mirth and glee; / For noo the sang I'm gaun to sing, / Is the poor man's tatties back again - / For since the year of forty-twa, / The tattie rotted frae the shaw, / which caused baith muckle grief and pain, / But noo the tatties back again.' The sheet contains no publication details.
This ballad appears to be a slightly tongue-in-cheek celebration of the potato. The author visualises a nation rejoicing and eating better than it ever has before, because there has been a good potato harvest. The roots of this humorous song are very serious, however. In 1842 a blight began to take hold of potato crops in North America, and by 1845 it had spread to the British Isles. In areas such as Ireland, and the Scottish Highlands, where the livelihood and diet of people were heavily dependent on potatoes, the effects of successive crop failures were devasting, causing many deaths and increased emigration. There were also failures of the potato harvest in Britain and Ireland in the 1870s.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Pity the fate of a poor Irish stranger, / That wanders so far from his home, / That sighs for protection from want, woe, and danger, / That knows not from which way for to roam.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
There are a number of other broadsides contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection that deal with the same issues as the 'Poor Irish Stranger'. The eighteenth and nineteenth centuries found thousands of Irish people leaving their homeland, to escape oppressive agricultural policies and the resulting threat of starvation. Many moved to Scotland hoping to find work in the rapidly growing industrial centres. This ballad would have struck a chord with all those who desperately longed for the shores of Ireland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'In taking of my walks on a cold winter's day, / Thro' the fields and the lanes I wended my way, / Till I arrived at a hovel both rustic and wild, / I heard a voice say, I'm a poor drunkard's child.' The broadside was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. It does not carry a price or a date of publication.
Ballads warning of the dangers of drink were quite commonly found on broadsides, especially in the later nineteenth century when the Temperance Movement had begun to gather momentum across Britain. One of the most persuasive arguments against drunkenness was the effect alcoholism had on children and family life, and the use of a pitiful 'drunkard's child' as narrator of a ballad, as in this case, was an effective way of appealing to the listener's conscience. Another broadside ballad, called 'The Drunkard's Raggit Wean', seems to have provoked a particularly strong reaction, as it was frequently reprinted and inspired several ballads responding to it.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Gather round me one an' all, great and small, short and tall, / Till you hear the sad down fall of the poor soldier boy. / That has fought by land and sea, night and day far away, / For thirteenpence a day, says the poor soldier boy.' The sheet carries no publication details. It is illustrated with a woodcut of a Highland soldier.
This ballad is narrated by a former soldier who is starving after having been discharged out from the army without a pension. Until 1871 British soldiers were not entitled to retirement pensions and only those who left the army with a disabling injury received pensions. It is possible that this ballad was symptomatic of a wider discontent about this situation, as it was almost certainly written near to the time the rule on pensions was changed: references to fighting in India date the ballad to after 1857-58, when British forces suppressed the first Indian War of Independence, also known as the Indian Mutiny.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O CALEDON, O CALEDON, / How wretch is thy Fate, / I, thy St. ANDREW do lament, / Thy poor abandon'd State.' The text preceding it reads: 'An Excellent new / SONG / To the Tune of, OLD LONG SYNE.'
There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which carry various versions of the lyrics to 'Old Long Syne'. The tune, however, is rarely given and thus must have been well-known at the time. This would be typical of a oral based tradition such as folksongs. There are a few versions of the melody 'Old Long Syne' but there is debate over whether the very first tune written down in 1700, was English or not. There are other copies, of both tune and lyrics, held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Will the people submit to the horrid disgrace, / Than which I can't fancy a greater, / Of a Member whose nose is agee on his face, / (And his principles not one whit straighter;)'. 'Agee' in this instance means 'crooked'. A woodcut illustration of a carriage pulled by a team of horses decorates the top of this sheet.
This ballad takes the form of an open attack against the Tories and the candidate chosen to represent them in an upcoming election. The candidate in question was the renowned Edinburgh merchant, John Learmonth. Owner of the Dean Estate and Lord Provost of Edinburgh (1832), Learmonth stood for parliament as the Tory candidate for Edinburgh in the mid-nineteenth century. He is perhaps best remembered for funding the construction of the Dean Bridge in 1831. In fact, in the fourth verse of this ballad, his nose is disparagingly compared to his beloved bridge: 'And then see its bridge! What a terrible height! / So towering! fleshless! and lean! / Just almost as high, altho' not perhaps quite, / As its counterpart over the Dean!'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'To view the scenes of Nature, I / Have travelled far and wide'. The text preceding this reads: 'BY JOHN MACMILLAN, / PROFESSOR OF POETRY, ORATORY, AND TEACHER OF ELOCUTION. / DEDICATED / TO THE GENTLEMAN, THE LAND PROPRIETORS ON THE / BANKS OF GIRVAN WATER. / TUNE - "The Traveller's Return."'
Although a lot of contextual information has been included here, unfortunately without a date and location, it is still a little difficult to place the author and his ballad into its historical background. The tune mentioned here is also not so well known as its reference here would suggest. This, however, is not at all unusual for broadside ballad publications. On the whole there is a lot more information included here than is normally attached to sheets.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem begins: 'O! Now my Muse Dramatick Stand Aside, / Let Tears for Commas Clausulas divide. / Let deepest Sorrow Dictate every Word, / Each Sentence Savor of the Fatal Sword. / Joy quite forgot, let no such Thing be here, / Sound sad Quaerelas O ye Tragick Quier. / Sad is the Thame, change now your Nots ye Nine, / Let Doolful Echos Treeble every Line.'
Through employing epic similes from classical mythology, this melancholic poem commemorates in lofty style the bravery of two soldiers. Frustratingly, the broadside offers little information regarding the identities of these men or the situation that caused their deaths, so it is difficult to place the poem in its proper historical context. However, the reference near the end of the poem to a 'brat' being born in Rome is quite likely a reference to the birth of Charles Edward Stuart, or 'Bonnie Prince Charlie' (1720-88). The mention of fighting 'upon our Street' and the 'cairn' which marks the spot where both men fell, also suggests that this is a song lamenting the soldiers who died during this bloody civil war.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This piece begins: 'The Duke of Hamilton he Rides up and down / To the Court but cannot Prevail, / The way is so rough, that he cannot win through, / Good Day to my Lord Lawderdale'. At the bottom is noted that the sheet was first printed in 1678, but this reprint dates from 1718.
This is a delicious piece of gossip and satire. Each line offers an opinion on different members of the Scots nobility of the time, and they are not always complimentary. All those mentioned are male. There are some allusions to contemporary politics, for instance, the Jacobites, but in the main it is the nobles' characters which are the focus.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'OLD Leith and Portobello / Had once a snivelling fellow, / All in the parliament, sir, / Their cause to represent, sir, / Whose name was Piper John.' A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the tune, 'Buxom Joan of Deptford'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Francis Jeffrey suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Written towards the end of the great 'Age of Party', this broadside pours scorn on an Edinburgh politician called 'Piper John'. Unfortunately, however, the ephemeral nature of broadsides means that it is very difficult to positively identify all of the political personalities who are mentioned in the ballad. In turn, this makes it hard to place the sheet in its proper historical context. However, the Jeffrey referred to in verse six is certainly Lord Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850), founder of 'The Edinburgh Review?.  Moving away from the people named in the ballad, the writer reveals much about electoral contests in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O MY Blood boiles, my Spirit's all in fire; / Passion's in pomp, nor can the Flames flly higher: / To sie my Native Countrey gone, / And English dreg lay on the fun'ral stone'. An annotation at the bottom of the sheet suggests that this broadside was published in Edinburgh on the 10th of April, 1728. The price and publisher are not noted.
Tonny Ashton is described in a handwritten annotation on this ballad as 'master of a playhouse in Edr'. Tony, or Tonny,  Aston or Ashton, was a strolling player who came to Edinburgh in the 1720s. He was promoted by the poet Allan Ramsay who wrote prologues for Aston?s performances as well as selling tickets for his plays. In 1726 Aston was denied a licence to perform by the Master of the Revels as he had failed to pay to the Revels office, the dues he owed them. Nevertheless he continued to perform until Skinner?s Hall (where he performed) was shut down. After a spell of litigation, Aston cut his losses and left Edinburgh in 1728. The fact that Ashton was English seems also to count against him.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'SIR Peter Curlew - we maun reason wi' you, / Ye meddle sae sair an' sae aft wi' the Frees, / And were ye review'd and as keenly pursu'd, / We'll tell you what we wad discern if ye please. / Amidst a' your cunnin' an' science in punin', / Your stock o' impudence an' columns o' lies, / We come to the sequal - ye hinna an equal / Mair greedy an gabby to gather Bawbees.' The sheet carries no publication details.
This ballad condemns a newspaper writer or publisher, Sir Peter Curlew, who has been repeatedly attacking or mocking members of the Free Church in print. Curlew is accused of 'dealing in scandal', a criticism that is still frequently levelled at the press in Britain. The author of 'Peter's Picture for a Bawbee' was Alexander Rodger (1784-1846), a native of Midlothian who gave up an apprenticeship as a handloom weaver to work on a Glasgow newspaper, named 'The Sprit of the Union', in 1819. The newspaper was suppressed for sedition, but Rodger found employment writing for the 'Reformers Gazette'. Rodger is best remembered for songs and poems that were political in tone but retained a sense of humour.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'HArd was my Lot for to be shot / By Cupits Cunning Arrows, / Both Night and Day I fall away, / Through perfit grief and Sorrow, / To the Hills and Deals I oft Reveal, / And breaths forth my Lamentation, / Which I endure for that Virgin pure, / The pearel of the Irish Nation.' The text above the title reads, 'An Excellent new Song lately composed'.
Although the ballad was to be sung 'To its own proper New Tune', no musical notation has been provided. This was not unusual, as many of the songs and melodies that featured on broadsides were already well-known amongst the populace and, therefore, such information was unnecessary. Also, at a time when few people could read, even fewer could interpret musical scores. Most people familiarised themselves with songs and melodies by carefully listening.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The verse begins: 'Ye Muses nine with me combine, / Assist my slender quill, / I hope you'll pay attention, / To every line I fill; / My name is Pat McGuire, / How can I it conceal, / By the cruelty of Mary Caze, / I lie in Lifford Jail.' In other versions of this ballad Pat McGuire appears as Pat Maguire, and Mary Caze is referred to as Mary Kays or Mary Keys.
Pat McGuire calls on the nine Muses of Greek mythology to assist him in telling his tale. Wrongly accused of a crime he did not commit by 'Mary Caze', as revenge for refusing to marry her, McGuire ends up thrown in Lifford Jail. The truth does out, however, and McGuire is soon set free to pursue his ambition of serving the Church of Rome. The ballad of Pat McGuire appears on another broadside contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, along with an illustrative woodcut and publishing details. Printed beside another item which bears the date '9 July 1832'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Now since you've call'd me for a song / If you will give attention, / General Garibaldi is the theme, / To you I'm going to mention.' The chorus reads: 'I was never fond of telling lies, / My name is Pat M'Salday, / He was afraid of our Irish boys, / Was General Garibaldi.'
This ballad pokes fun at the Italian general and political leader, Giuseppe Garibaldi (1807-82). Despite Garibaldi's status as a revolutionary hero, Pat McSalday is far from impressed by this leading light from the campaign for Italian unificiation. During 1862 and 1867, Garibaldi led two unsuccessful campaigns to liberate Rome from papal rule. In response to these efforts, many impassioned Irishmen travelled to Europe to fight in defence of papal power. Their reaction to Garibaldi's endeavours possibly explains the disparaging tone of this ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'In the days of my youth when I travelled the kintra, / Bare in my rumple the wearifu' packs, / Frae the east neuk o' Fife to the cauld hills o' Fintry'. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet.
This ballad recounts the misfortunes, both in love and money, of this wandering pedlar who is eventually left bankrupt and with a drinking habit. He is then forced to 'take the king's shilling' and join the British Army to survive. The mention of General Picton suggests that the pedlar was posted to Madras in the 1790s, as this was one of General Picton's famous strategic decisions. The lyrics finish with a warning note about living a good life to ensure one's place in heaven.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHat News, Friend Cuddie, how's your bonny Flock? / Death, fatal Death's giv'n mine a heavy Strock! / Now frae the bieldy Glens, and Velvet Lees, / Where I've been glad, a Pleasure quickly flees.'
In England, through Alexander Pope and Ambrose Philips, and in Scotland through Allan Ramsay, the eighteenth century saw a revival of the popularity of pastoral poetry, largely inspired by the Eclogues of Virgil. An eclogue is a short pastoral dialogue in verse. Ramsay in particular was skilled in the form, and achieved huge success with his pastoral play, 'The Gentle Shepherd', based on two of his earlier love eclogues. The poem on the broadside is a humorous parody of pastoral coventions, substituting the customary praise of nature with a melodramatic exchange about the death of a sheep.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Ye Muses nine with me combine, assist my slender quill, / And my weary notions at every line [I] fill, / My name is Pat M'Guire how can I conceal, / By the cruelties of Mary Keys I lie in Lifford Jail.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a group of well-dressed individuals surrounding a clergyman.
The ballad of Pat McGuire also appears on another broadside contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, albeit a slightly different version in which McGuire's accuser is named Mary Caze rather than Mary Keys. Both do, however, follow McGuire's plight and his efforts to be freed from Lifford Jail. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The fight was far, far from the land, / When the bravest of our gallant band / Grew deadly pale and weaned away / From a shillelagh's top on an autumn day.' It was to be sung to the tune 'The Sailor's Grave'. The broadside was priced at one penny and published on Saturday, 2nd May 1863. The publisher was the Poet's Box (probably Glasgow), but the town of publication has been obscured.
The word 'parody' in the title of this ballad suggests that it may be a satire on the words of an earlier song to the same melody. Anti-Irish sentiments are suggested by details like the 'murphies' or potatoes that are buried in 'Paddy's Grave' with the dead Irishman. Such sentiments were commonplace in the nineteenth century, with the Irish home rule struggle continuing and Irish migrants to industrial areas of Britain encountering suspicion and prejudice. This 'Sailor's Grave' is no relation to the later popular song by Arthur Sullivan (1842-1900) and H.F. Lyte.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.As this broadside contains two separate ballads, the chapmen would have sold the sheet as a special offer of two for the price of one. The opening line of the first ballad reads: 'O whar hae you been a' day, creeshie soutar Johnnie'. The opening line of the second ballad reads: 'All in the Downs the fleet was moor'd'. 'Cresshie' means 'greasy'.
The first ballad on this broadside is a drinking song. However, this drinking song contains a moral message, since the lyrics instruct 'soutar Johnnie' that he should be looking after his hungry children instead of spending his money on alcohol. The second ballad tells of a tearful young woman called Susan, who boards a British warship in search of her departing sweetheart, a sailor named William. As the ship is about to sail, William must quickly convince Susan of his love for her. He imaginatively achieves this aim by employing a number of poetic images in a poignantly romantic manner.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'While there's beef in the pat, / And there's soup in the brae, / There's twenty four hours, / In a nicht and a' day'. A 'pat' translates as a 'pot' in English. 'Brae' normally means 'hill', as this is a nonsense song it could possibly be meant as a joke. It was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee and sold for a penny.
This is a parody of Sir Walter Scott's 1816 poem, 'MacGregor's Gathering'. Scott's famous lines, 'While there's leaves in the forest / And foam on the river, / MacGregor, despite them, / Shall flourish forever!' have been altered in this version to, 'While there's leaves in a tammy book / Want we will never / Hurroo for Scotch Haddies / An parritch for ever.' A 'tammy book' is an account book held by a shop, and the lyrics imply that while you could get credit you would never go without haddock (haddies) or porridge (parritch).
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
The National Library of Scotland also holds a copy of the original Scott poem, also published by the Dundee Poet's Box. Scott is not credited as author, however.The first ballad begins: 'A fair-haired boy in a foreign land at sunrise was to die ; / In a prison cell he sat alone, from his heart there came a sigh'. The second ballad begins: 'As a lad I stood one day by a cottage far away, / And to me that day all nature seemed more grand'. The third ballad reads: 'To spare the rod will spoil the child, I've often heard people / say'. The fourth ballad begins: 'Grand-dad sat at evenfall / 'Neath the dear old garden wall'.
Whilst the majority of ballads and songs were published anonymously, the author and composer of 'Just like the Ivy, I'll Cling to You' have both been included on this sheet. It was written and composed by A.J. Mills and Henry Castling, and famously sung by Marie Kendall.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson.This ballad begins: 'TOM. / COME, neighbours, no longer be patient and quiet / Come let us go kick up a bit of a riot; / I am hungry, my lads, but I've little to eat, / Sio we'll pull down the mills, and seize all the meat: / I'll give you good sport, boys, as ever you saw, / Sp a fig for the Justice, a fig for the law.' It was to be sung to the tune of 'A Cobler there was'. The broadside was published by R. Morison of Perth and is not priced or dated.
'The Riot' probably dates from the first haf of the nineteenth century, when there was frequent civil unrest over Corn Laws. The first Corn Law of 1804 imposed a duty on imported foreign grain, in order to encourage sales of British grain, and the Corn Law of 1815 stated that this duty would only be suspended when British grain reached a price of 80 shillings per quarter. After a poor harvest in 1816, there were food riots across Britain, and protests continued until the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846. This ballad offers both sides of the argument, but ultimately seems to advise that rioting is pointless, and that the government can not be blamed for poor harvests and bad weather.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'It is an ancient harridan, / A provost stoppeth she; / "By thy red hair and bandy gown, / Now wherefore stoppest thou me?"' This ballad was written by Alvan Marlaw, 'Apologizing to the shade of Coleridge'. It was printed by Lowden Macartney at the Poet's Box in Overgate, Dundee, priced one penny.
Alvan Marlaw's satirical ballad is a parody of Coleridge's 'The Rime of the Ancient Mariner' that delivers an indictment of corruption in civic and national government. Civic power is represented by the wealthy, selfish provost; the ancient harridan who stops him represents the State. The premise of the poem is that the ruling classes in Britain pay higher taxes, or bribes, in order to maintain the system of class and privilege, and ensure that the working classes remain poor and discriminated against in law. Radical ballads like this were quite common, especially in the nineteenth century.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Wi' a sair heart I wander and think on days that's gane, / I hear the young anes singing o' the drunkard's raggit wean; / I ken' the tales ower true, when I turn my e'en on hame, / Farewell unto the drunkard's cup, from drinking I'll refrain.' It was published by Robert McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow.
A decorative woodcut of Powis Castle has been printed at the top of this sheet. Many broadside producers included an illustration to boost sales: the broadside-buying public were more inclined to buy a sheet that featured a picture, believing it to be better value for money. As a result, broadside publishers often kept a fairly limited stock of woodcuts and reused them. This often resulted in the illustration bearing little or no relation to the topic. Indeed, Powis Castle in Wales has little to do with the story of the reformed drunkard told in this ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Brittania the gem of the ocean, / The home of the brave and the free, / The shrine of each patriot's devotion, / This world offers homage to thee.' The sheet was published by McIntosh, of 96 King Street, Calton, which is probably Glasgow. A woodcut of a sailing ship adorns the top of the sheet.
This ballad celebrates the British Navy's achievements in war at sea, and highlights especially those achieved under Horatio Nelson (1758-1805). Nelson commanded the Navy throughout the French Revolutionary War and in the early stages of the Napoleonic War. The 'Red, White and Blue' refers to the British flag, the Union Jack.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'I love thee, I prize thee, and who can scorn / Or chide me for loving my dear tenor horn? / Together we've journeyed for many long years, / And the thoughts of our parting would cause bitter tears.' The name of the author has been included: 'J. Williams, Formerly of the Band XL Regt.'
This light-hearted song recounts the very long and special relationship that has developed between Jim Williams and his 'E flat Saxhorn'. They appear to have shared the best of times, 'When together we shared in the honour and praise', and the worst of times, 'I have one solace left me, this true friend of mine'. Although the notion of a special bond existing between a man and a musical instrument is a humorous one, the sentiments found in Williams' 'Recitation' are surprisingly touching.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'God prosper long our noble king, / Our lives and safeties all, / I'll sing of murders that till now, / Did never yet befal'. The text preceding this reads: 'A NEW SONG. / Tune, - "Chevy Chase"'. There are no publication details attached.
The ballad 'Chevy Chase' was first registered at the Stationers' Hall in 1624 and is believed to have been about the Battle of Otterburn. This battle, in 1388, was one of the largest Scottish raids into England ever mounted by the Scots and it was left up to Henry 'Hotspur' Percy of Northumberland to exact revenge. The tune to the song, however, was regularly used to accompany folk ballads. This author has gone one step further by using many of the original words to the song but altering others to make it relevant to the case of Burke and Hare.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This sheet begins: 'Quid non pro Patria'. The ballad itself begins: 'Fam'd Scotia's Sons once more comes to the Plain, / Nor fears the Tempests of the raging Main'.
Most officer ranks in the army, during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, were filled by men who bought the position, mainly because of the status and security it bestowed. When these positions were vacated by death in service, however, there was no time for the position to undergo this process and so the next man, in order of seniority, won it. As a result, those without a lot of money volunteered - were not paid the King's shilling - as soldiers, and so were allowed to mess with the officers. Many were lost early in their careers, as these volunteers exhibited great daring in the hope of being noticed for promotion. During the Napoleonic Wars (1769-1820), especially, there was a high turnover of officers and so volunteer gentlemen did very well.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'NOW, now comes on the glorious Year, / Britain's hope, and France's fear; / Lewis the War has cost so dear, / He slyly peace does tender . . . ' A note below the title states that the ballad was sung 'To the Tune of CAPING-TRADE'.
With its pageant-like references to a number of military commanders of the time, this ballad celebrates the martial glories of Great Britain, against the Catholic countries of France and Spain. These military references, combined with the toast to the Queen, suggest that the ballad was published during the reign of Queen Anne, from 1702 to 1714. Sounding the trumpet to herald a number of British victories, the eulogy closes with a joint toast to the Queen and the Duke of Marlborough (1650-1722). The recurring reference to Marlborough's valour, probably refers to his great victory over the French at the Battle of Blenheim, in 1704.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The first of my courtship that ever was known, / I straight took my way from the county Tyrone; / Where mang pretty fair maids they used me well there / They called me the stranger or Rambler from Clair.' The broadside was published by Robert McIntosh. The date and place of publication are not given, but it is likely that this was the Robert McIntosh who operated from King Street, Glasgow, in the mid-nineteenth century.
This ballad concerns the many adventures of a man from County Clare in Ireland, and is narrated by himself. After knowing many women, joining the army, being imprisoned and then being broken free, the Rambler emigrates to America. The latter part of his story has a strong basis in fact. Both Ireland and the Scottish Highlands suffered from rural poverty and British government repression in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and this led to high levels of emigration. Many Irishmen also moved to Lowland Scotland as industrial workers and seasonal agricultural labourers, and this partly explains the large number of Irish songs which appear on broadsides in Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This humorous ballad begins: 'Of all the simple Things I know, / To rub o'er a whimsical Life, / There's ne'r a Folly half so true, / As that very bad Bargain a Wife'. It is undated. No tune is given.
The institution of marriage is lampooned in this piece. The author bemoans the loss of the 'mad Frolicks' of his past, and speaks fondly of his batchelor days, which apparently were spent womanising and drinking. Now, he says, 'I us'd to top a Bottle or two, / But now drink small Beer with my Spouse'. He has been fettered by the chains of marriage he feels like 'like a Fox that is hamper'd . . . forc'd to creep in to my Hole'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The queen she is coming, hurra! hurra! / To the land of the thistle, hurra! hurra! / From mountain and glen / Come ye brave Highlandmen / And welcome your Queen ane an' a', an' a''. There are no publication details available for this sheet.
This broadside almost certainly refers to a visit to Scotland by Queen Victoria (1819-1901). The Queen was a frequent visitor to Scotland and, after her visit with her husband, Prince Albert, in 1842, she returned annually. In 1852 the couple bought land in Balmoral, Deeside, and had the famous castle built. Indeed, 'Balmorality' has since entered the lexicon as a Victorian type of morality. Queen Victoria wrote about the Scottish countryside in her memoirs, and her fondness for tartan helped the clothing industry. In the ballad, the writer waxes lyrically about the natural beauty and glorious history of Scotland, and loyally affirms that 'The Queen to our country is true'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Queen is coming here they say, / To Scotland coming down; / Prince Albert will be with her too, / We shall see them soon.' A woodcut crown decorates the top of the page.
Queen Victoria made her first tour of Scotland in 1842, five years after succeeding to the crown and two years after her marriage to Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg. The precedent for visiting Scotland had been re-established by George IV in 1822 - the first royal visit to Scotland for over 150 years. It was upon this visit that Albert and Victoria, especially, fell in love with the Scottish Highlands. The couple would eventually go on to purchase the Balmoral estate, in 1852. This provided the family with a relatively peaceful and secluded holiday home.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'Up in the mornin's no for me- / Up in the mornin' early / The Bailies and I could never agree / To rise in the morning early.' This song should be sung to the tune 'Up in the mornin' early'. There is woodcut of a comfortable looking, well-dressed man supping wine in a parlour.
The allusions to the Queen and the Provost in this song mean that it most likely to referred to Queen Victoria's visit to Edinburgh in 1842. The Lord Provost at the time was Jemmie Forrest, and unfortunately for his career, some of the plans for her official welcome did not go well. The main incident was when the Edinburgh guard of honour and the Queen's bodyguards mistook each other for assassins and scuffle broke out! There were many broadsides published at the time which accused Forrest of sleeping when he should have been paying attention.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'O, fare ye well Stirling town, / And Athrie braes a while, / For I have gone and left you now, / To get a cover in Argyle.' Verse 2: 'O, when I was in Stirling town, The ladies I met there, / They were always glad to see me, aye, / And I shared of their good cheer.' This song was to be sung to the air 'Black Joke'. The broadside carries no publication details.
This ballad is narrated by a 'Professor Nimmo', and involves him leaving Stirling for Argyllshire and bidding farewell to the 'ladies he met there'. Professor Nimmo implies that he has made several of these women pregnant, and his hasty departure may have something to do with this. A famous 'History of Stirlingshire', first  published in 1777, was written by the Rev. William Nimmo of Bothkennar, who was regarded as an accomplished scholar. However, there is no evidence that he may be connected to the 'Professor Nimmo' of this ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Come gather round me brither Scots and listen unto me, / A movement now it is afloat, an honour to Dundee'.
The second ballad begins: 'On Monday night I married a wife, / I thought we'd live happy life.' This sheet carries two illustrative woodcuts depicting Robert Burns and a rustic couple.
The topic of the first song, Burns's (1756-96) statue in Dundee, suggests this sheet was published there, although the topic has a popular appeal and so may not have been confined to Dundee. The statue was unveiled in Dundee in 1880 and was a copy of that commissioned by the city of New York and unveiled only weeks before. The commission was completed by Sir John Robert Steell (1804-91), who based his casting on Alexander Nasmyth's (1758-1840) portrait of 1787. As a result the likeness is believed to be quite accurate and conforms with the public image of Burns.The first ballad begins: 'When Charlie first came to the North, / With the manly looks of a Highland laddie'. The second ballad begins: 'In June, when broom and bloom was seen, / An' brackens waved fu' fresh an' green'. The third ballad begins: 'As I walked out one midsummer's morning, / To view the fields and take the air'.
This sheet contains three songs that would have been very popular at the time of its publication. All are still known today, and 'The Banks of Sweet Primroses' in particular is a staple in the repertoires of many British folk singers. A slightly different version of 'Prince Charlie and his Tartan Pladdie' is named 'King Fareweel'. The refrain 'King fareweel, hame fareweel, / A' tae bid oor King fareweel' is omitted from the version on this broadside.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'In Westminster, not long ago, / There lived a rat-catcher's daughter - / She was not born in Westminster, / But on t'other side of the water. / Her father kill'd rats, and she sold sprats; / All round and over the water, / And the gentlefolks they all bought sprats / Of the pretty rat-catcher's daughter'.
Ballads and broadsides were one of the few forms of mass entertainment available to the populace before the advent of television and radio. The sheets would often be bought and then shared around or read out aloud. The topics were often down to earth and no doubt would have been instantly recognisable to those in the audience, like this example here. The feel-good factor of this triumph over adversity ballad would probably have made it a fairly popular purchase.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'AS Alexanders hastened death did bring / Each of his Captaines to be made a King, / Even fo our Bishops did ruines preferre / Unto a Bishopricke each Presbyter . . . ' .
This erudite broadside appears to be a satire against organised religion. Given the religious nature of the recurring civil wars that took place in Scotland, England and Ireland during this era (note the Latin subtitle's emphasis on alternating periods of peace and turbulence), this sheet would have caused some controversy among its audience. The numerous classical and literary allusions suggest that this ballad would have been written by a well-educated person.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Scotia's thistles guard the grave, / Where repose our dauntless brave; / Never yet the foot of slave / Hath trod the wilds of Scotia. / Free from tyrant's dark control, / Free as waves of ocean roll, / Free as thought of minstrel soul, / Still roam the sons of Scotia.' This broadside was priced at one penny and published on Saturday, 21st May 1870, by the Poet's Box. The town of publication has been obscured, but was probably Glasgow.
Legend has it that the thistle was adopted as Scotland's national emblem after a Viking invading party, approaching Scottish warriors by night, crept into a patch of thistles and began to cry out in pain, alerting the Scots to their whereabouts. Since then, the thistle has represented Scotland in artwork, advertising, football club names and many songs and poems. Perhaps the most famous usage is in 'A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle' by Hugh MacDiarmid (1892-1978). Published in 1926, it is an epic dissection of the Scottish character. 'Scotia's Thistle' is an earlier, less ambitious tribute to the beauty and independent spirit of Scotland.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This song begins: 'At Otaheite, I've heard say, a huge fat Queen walked out; / Her head was like a mourning coach, it was so black and large, O. / Her eyes were like two coca nuts, and a black ring through her snout. / And her name was Pulka, Wulka, Poki, Koki, Coalee, Barge, O.' The sheet was printed by MacGibbon.
Captain Samuel Wallis was the first European to visit the tropical island Otaheiti (Tahiti) in the South Pacific. It was ruled by the Polynesian Pomare dynasty until 1880, when it became part of a French Colony, so it is likely that this broadside dates from earlier in the nineteenth century. The language and imagery adopted in the ballad is highly racist and stereotypes the native Tahitians as fat, ugly and cannibalistic.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When Charlie first came to the North, / With the manly looks of a Highland laddie'. A detailed woodcut of a grand and large house surrounded by estate land dominates the top of this sheet. Its inclusion would have increased the value of the sheet greatly and may have helped less literate viewers feel included.
This song was popular broadside topic and there are many examples of it from various time periods in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Although Jacobite leanings were clearly traitorous, and dangerous after 1746, this continued to be published. The strength of Catholic, Scottish and monarchists' feelings about the line of inheritance of the British throne may be gauged by publications such as this.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'AULD Scotia now may sigh aloud, / Her tears in torrents fa', / Her sweetest harp now hangs unstrung, / Since WILSON'S ta'en awa'. / He sang o' a' her warlike deeds, / An' sons that gallant were - / Her hoary towers, an' snaw-clad hills, /  An maidens sweet an' fair.' The poem is an elegy on 'JOHN WILSON, Esq., the Scottish Vocalist, who died in America, on the 9th July 1849.' The author was William Jamie of Gourdon Schoolhouse, and the poem is dated 7th August 1849.
Neither the subject of this elegy, the singer John Wilson, nor its author William Jamie, are remembered widely in Scotland today. Wilson, born in Edinburgh in 1800, was the compiler of 'The songs of Scotland' published during the early 1840s. He was best known as a tenor, successful in Covent Garden and Drury Lane, London and throughout the eastern seaboard of North America. He may also have been the author of another song of this site 'A new song on the dear times'. The poem suggests that Wilson was a performer of Burns's songs, and also of songs about Scotland's landscape and heroic past. These were themes which had become internationally popular during the early nineteenth century through Sir Walter Scott's novels. Burns's renown also grew during this period, and his influence is obvious in William Jamie's choice of metre and rhyme scheme, which echo Burns's song 'A Red, Red Rose'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The Queen she is coming, hurra ! hurra ! / To the land of the Thistle, hurra ! hurra !' The song was written by Andrew Park in honour of Queen Victoria's royal progress around Scotland in 1842.
Andrew Park was born in Renfrew, in 1807 and educated first at Parish School and then Glasgow University. At 14 he began a job in Paisley and at 20 moved into Glasgow, working as a hat salesman. He set up a bookselling business in 1841, but after three years of struggling for success this was closed. In 1856 he travelled around Egypt, which was the inspiration for his book 'Egypt and the East. He died in Glasgow in 1893. From the age of 14 onwards, however, Park enjoyed publishing his poetry, of which this sheet is an example.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'One morning in the month of May, / It's sweetly shone the sun, / All on the banks of daisies gay, / There sits a lovely one.' Unfortunately there are no publication details printed on this sheet.
A woodcut illustration of a young woman holding up a caged bird has been included at the top of this sheet. Alongside her, a disproportionately large cat gazes longingly at the little bird in the cage. This particular woodcut can also be found on another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, accompanying a ballad entitled 'Bonny Mary of Argyle'. It was common practice amongst broadside producers to reuse their often limited stock of woodcuts.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The oldest person in the world, on land or on the water, / Never saw such times before, since Sampson killed his daughter.' The chorus reads: 'Tens of thousands out of work, what will the country come to ? / I cannot think, says every one, where all the trade is gone to.'
Whilst no publication details have been included on this sheet, it is known that James Lindsay of Glasgow published this particular ballad in the late nineteenth century. It is impossible to say for sure, however, whether he was responsible for this copy. The ballad laments the lack of money across all sectors of Scottish society - everyone is feeling the pinch! Reference is made to the Crimean War (1854-6) and the possibility that all the money has been sent there: 'Some say its off to Sebastopol to fight the Russian Bear'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'D----d brazen Face, how could you hope / To imitate Horatian Strain, / A Labour roo refin'd for Pope, / A Task which pussel'd Prior's Pen.' Because, at the time this was printed, 'damned' was considered a strong word to put into print, the dashes represent the other letters. The 'D' of the first word has been illuminated; a swan nestles inside it and foliage decorates the outside. No publication details are present.
Allan Ramsay (1685-1758) is best remembered today for his Scots works, such as 'The Gentle Shepherd' but he did write in English as well. In 1721 he published 'Poems', which included five translations of Horace's 'Odes'. The author of this piece believes he should have 'Let Horace sleep', and mentions the poor attempts of others, such as Alexander Pope (1688-1744) and Matthew Prior (1664-1721).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Gae bring my guid auld harp ance mair, / Gae bring it free and fast, / For I maun sing anither sang / E'er a' my glee be past; / and trow ye, as I sing, my lads / The burden o't shall be - / Auld Scotland's howes, and Scotland's knowes / And Scotland's hills for me; / I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet, / Wi' a' the honours three!' This broadside was published by James Lindsay of King Street in Glasgow. It is not dated.
'Scotland Yet' was written by the poet Henry Scott Riddell (1798-1870), who became a minister in Teviotside and wrote the poem while out for a walk in a lonely glen at Teviothead. It is a song written as a toast to the beauty, history and heritage of Scotland. The subject that unites the verses is the importance of freedom, a theme that has been recurrent in Scottish culture from the Declaration of Arbroath in 1320 to the film 'Braveheart' in the 1990s. One of the champions of an older, freer Scotland that is mentioned is Ossian, the 3rd century ancient Gaelic poet whose work was 'translated' by James Macpherson (1736-96). Like that of most countries, Scotland's popular image is based as much on myth and fiction as it is on historical fact.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'JEEN your Speun Haund to your Lang Goon. / Hod him up, Sir. / Hod him doown the Speun Seede, hod him down now. / Opin your Kittle, sir . . . ' Below the title, there is a short note, presumably addressed to the Prince of Wales, advising him 'Tak Care on your Sell, sir, noow'.
The ambiguous reference to the 'pretended' Prince of Wales in this ballad's title, suggests that the song could be about the 'Old Pretender', James 'VIII' and 'III' - the son of James VII and II. Strangely, the verses to this ballad appear to be nonsense lyrics, although the tone of the piece is certainly not deferential. As with people's political opinions during this turbulent and dangerous era, this song can swing both ways.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'What makes ye sae wae, wi' tear in your e'e, / For blythe ye was ance, man, wi' pleasure and glee. / Come gie me yer loof in this auld loof o' mine, / And we'll tak a wee drappie for the days o' langsyne.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
As this broadside contains a sentimental and nostalgic ballad on the subject of the failed Jacobite Risings, it must have been written long after 1746. With an end of verse refrain to remind people that these events took place a long time ago, the ballad praises Bonnie Prince Charlie and the Jacobite Clans, while it criticises the Hanoverian King, George I, and his heirs. The woodcut on this broadside is especially interesting, as the imagery clearly alludes to the famous 'king o'er the water' theme, in addition to showing traditional Jacobite symbols such as the white cockade and the toasting glass.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'From the fine Roman Whore, or Geneva Slut ; / The one dawbed with Paint, the other with Smut ; / From the Beast's horned Head, or his cloven Foot'. It is to be sung to the tune of 'An old Courtier of the Queen'. It was published in Edinburgh by James Watson, in 1713.
Watson (1664-1722), was one of the King's printers for Scotland. King's printers had exclusive rights to print acts of Parliament, proclamations, the Authorised Version of the Bible, the metrical psalmsand catechism, amongst others. It appears that this is not one of those; indeed, the piece seems to be harshly critical of organised religion, saying the 'Dragons of the Church . . . make others Martyrs to make themselves Saints'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The Russians are coming to Scotland they say, / Get ready old women, they're now on their way ; / Be true to your colours and laugh at the joke'.
This broadside focuses on Britain's foreign policy during the 1850s. The Austrians and Russians, under Tsar Nicolas I, were forming an alliance, mainly to gain supremacy over the Turks in the Balkan States and the Crimean Coast. Britain's government at the time, a Liberal-Conservative coalition led by George Hamilton Gordon, Lord Aberdeen, refused to acknowledge the new Russian threat, however. This broadside's prediction of Russian aggression would prove to be true as Britain entered into the Crimean War in 1854.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This ballad begins: 'How sweet was the time when keeped our Flocks, / In Shades of the Mountains, and Coverts of Rocks?' This ballad is sung to the tune of 'The Yellow-hair'd Laddie: Or Jenney Milking the Ewes'.
This is the only extant occurrence of these three elements, these lyrics and two melodies, coming to together in one song. The melodies were old in the eighteenth century and had their own anonymous lyrics. Allan Ramsay (1686-1757), however, used the melody in his 'Tea-Table Miscellany' (1724-27), where he wrote another set of lyrics and included a further set. These are not the same as those carried on this broadside.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Scotland, aroused from her slumbers, / By the war-drnm which beats the alarms, / Ne'er afraid for to face hostile numbers, / When arrayed in her wild warlike arms. / Since the days of the great Julius Caesar, / Till Alma's heights stood in view, / There the Russian host did surrender, / To the lads with their bonnets sae blue! / Three cheers for the bonnets, &c.'
This ballad is a celebration of the Battle of Alma, which took place during the Crimean War, in September 1854. The battle featured combined French and British forces arrayed against a Russian army, but the ultimate rout of the Russians was forced by the well-disciplined Highland Brigade, comprising 3 battalions: the  93rd Highlanders, the Cameron Highlanders, and the Black Watch. In the ballad, the phrase 'bonnets sae blue' refers to the blue bonnets worn by the Black Watch.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come all ye knight templars that blest round the globe, / That wear the badge of honour, I mean the royal robe; / For Noah he wire it in the ark where he stood, / When the world was destroyed by a deluge flood.' The sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow, and cost one penny.
Illustrated with a spectacular and intriguing woodcut, this broadside appears to be celebrating the secret history and existence of freemasonry. The key, hammer, sword and evil eye all appear to be symbols of freemasonry, though because such organisations are cloaked in secrecy, it is difficult to decode the meaning of this woodcut. However, with its altar and candles, the woodcut most likely represents some sort of traditional, quasi-religious ceremony. The ballad itself makes many references to biblical stories, while the Bible that appears in the woodcut is mysteriously opened at the Old Testament chapter called 'Kings'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ' Room, Room, Room for a Rover, / London is so Hot;  / I a Country Lover, / bless my Freedom got; / This Celestial Weather, / such enjoyment gives, / We like Birds flock hither, browsing on green leaves.' It is subtitled 'OR An Innocent Country Life prefer'd before the Noise Claymors of a Restless Town. The ballad was to be sung 'To a New Tune', not named, and was published by John Moncur of Sclater's Close in Edinburgh, in 1707.
The narrator of this ballad is extolling the virtues of an 'innocent' life in the country above a sinful existence in the town. Some of the early eighteenth century's racial prejudices and beliefs are revealed in verse two, where the narrator compares urban dwellers to 'cannibals' in the 'Eastern Regions' who are 'eas'd of all Religion'. In this period, many Scots would only have recognised Presbyterianism as a true religion. There is a certain amount of hypocrisy about the narrator, however, as he condemns townspeople as drunkards while professing his love for 'Wine that Warms the Noddle'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come all you Britons stout and bold / Who scorns now to be controu'd / Good news unto you I will unfold / It is of brave Rodney's glory / Who always bore a noble heart / And from his colours ne'er could start / But always takes his country's part'.
Written by the County Kerry poet Eoghan Rua  Silleabhin, this patriotic song is a eulogy to the martial glories of Great Britain and the famous English admiral, George Rodney (1719-92). Rodney served in the Seven Years' War and, in April 1782, won a famous victory over Count de Grasse's French fleet at the islets called the Saintes, near Dominica. Known as the Battle of the Saints, Rodney's resounding victory meant that the West Indies remained under British control. The ballad proudly takes the audience into the heat of the battle and, revealingly, the narrator places great emphasis on forging a British identity through fighting wars against the French and Spanish.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'They speak in riddles north between the Tweed, / The plain, pure English they can deftly read; / Yet when without the book they come to speak, / Their lingo is half English and half Greek.' Although the sheet is not dated and the publisher is not named, a note below the title states that 'Copies can always be had at 80 London Street', one of the addresses of the Glasgow Poet's Box.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
As suggested by the word 'Scotch' in the title, this broadside is a light-hearted attack on the Scots language by an English writer who considers himself superior, simply because he speaks 'proper' English. After providing his audience with a list of Scots words, he tells of a humorous escapade that occurred when an English lady was touring in Scotland. On retiring to bed, Lady Delacour's servant advised her that, to stay warm, she should sleep with a 'pig' in her bed. As 'pig' is a Scots word for 'hot water bottle', a series of delicate - and amusing - misunderstandings arise from this awkward situation.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verseThis ballad begins: 'FROM the fine Roman Whore, or Geneva Slut; / The one dawbed with Paint, the other with Smut; / From the Beast's horned Head, or his cloven Foot, / Libera, &c.' The text preceding it reads: 'A New Litany, / To the Tune of, An old Courtier of the Queen.' It was printed by James Watson, of Edinburgh, in 1713.
James Watson was a prolific broadside printer who operated in Edinburgh between 1695 and 1722. His father had taken over the publishing house of Colmar and Solingen, and so he had inherited a solid business to begin with. Many of his broadsides were on religious topics, like this one, and reflected many of the religious and political tensions of the time. Here both Catholic and Protestant strongholds are being attacked.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse of this ballad begins: 'Saw ye Jenny Nettles, Jenny Nettles, Jenny Nettles, / Coming frae the matket; / Her fee and bountith on her lap'. The sheet was published by William Anderson, at the Poet's Box, Paisley. A woodcut of a mother and child, framed by a border of foliage, adorns the top of the sheet.
The note at the bottom of this sheet states that the Paisley Poet's Box is 'Free Burgage Territory'. 'Burgage' was an old system whereby land was leased directly from the crown, and was not taxed. In Paisley, there was a very similar system, called a 'booking tenure', where the land belonged to the burgh, rather than the crown. This is probably the sort of lease Anderson held. It would have been attractive to potential customers as the fact that he paid no tax would hopefully have meant a better value product. It is not known whether the Paisley Poet's Box was related to those in Dundee, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Belfast.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Gae bring my guid auld harp ance mair, / Gae bring it free and fast ; / Of a' the airts the win' can blaw, / I dearly lo'e the wast'. This translates as 'Go bring my good harp once more, / Go bring it free and fast; / Of all the arts the wind can blow, / I dearly love the west.' It is to be sung to the tune of 'Scotland Yet'. It was published in Dundee by the Poet's Box.
The lyrics to this song are comprised mainly of a pastiche of parts, or titles, of other well-known songs, especially those of Robert Burns (1759-96). Unfortunately, although probably intentional, the way these snippets of other songs have been arranged does not always make sense.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Whigs hae taken the field, Edie, / The Whigs hae taken the field, / We maun strain every nerve, / Our Party to serve, / And force our opponents to yield, Edie, / We maun blin the enemy's een, Edie, / We maun blin the enemy's een, / While we cry 'Dinna pledge,' / Let us try to engage, / As mony's we can while unseen, Edie.' 
Written in the lofty style of a martial epic, this political ballad is written from the viewpoint of the Whig Party, as they seek to challenge the Tories and the Radicals. It seems likely that the obscure title for the ballad is a reference to a poem by Robert Southey (1774-1843), who, due to his toadying to the Establishment, was a much-ridiculed poet laureate. Roderick, Last of the Goths, was the last in the Visigothic line of kings in Spain, being dethroned by the African Moors in 711. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I came into Edinburgh, / down by the High Street I did stray, / To drink I to a change-house went, / I spent all that night and the next day'. The chorus begins: 'Lilty turin inurin inurin, / Lilty turin inurin inay'. 'Change-house' is Scots for an 'alehouse' or 'tavern'. A woodcut illustration of a drunken man addressing the moon has been included at the top of this sheet.
Perhaps a more suitable title for this ballad would have been 'A Sailor's Misadventures in Edinburgh'! It acts as a warning to any young man tempted to stray into one of the alehouses or taverns in Edinburgh's High Street, where there are women waiting to relieve them of their money. Ironically, such songs were extremely popular in the change-houses of the day and would have most likely been sung in the establishments that were being pilloried in this ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Leave of my minde why thinks thou on, / She that was once my dear / does thou not know that she is gone, / and married now I hear / what madness make the recolect / to think on such a maide / who allwise payd me with neglect / and my desinges bewraed.' The text preceding it reads: 'To a Pleasant New Tune'.
There are other copies of these lyrics to 'a pleasant new tune' held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This lamentation genre has its origins in the Bible. The Lamentations of Jeremiah detailed Judah's desolation at the Fall of Jerusalem in 586 BC to the Babylonian King, Nebuchadnezzar. Thereafter a tradition developed to express grief for the dead, with the poems being written in a special metre called 'elegiac'. Lamentation eventually became a traditional Scottish expression of grief, accompanied by bagpipes, at clan funerals.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye Highland hearts, of generous mould, / Whose truth's renowned in story, / Ye Scottish heroes, brave and bold, / That love your country's glory!' The text preceding this reads: 'THEN FILL THE CUP TO MURRAY'S NAME. / AIR - "The Highland Watch".'
The text contained on this sheet is a very good illustration of the role of broadsides in their society. Murray and his exploits must have been instantly recognisable to the audience as so little contextual detail is given - no date, Christian name or even occupation is included. Murray, however, and his contribution to Scotland is celebrated in the text suggesting that his role was important. Broadsides were the ephemeral entertainment and immediate journalism of their day.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'I'm lying on a foreign shore, / An hear the birdies sing, / They speak to me o' Auld Langsyne, / An' sunny memories bring, / Oh but tae see a weel kent face, / Or hear a Scottish lay, / As sung in years lang, lang bye-gane, / They haunt me nicht and day.' The sheet was printed by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee and sold for a penny. It also features a woodcut of a thistle, an emblem of Scotland.
This song follows the very traditional theme of the emigrant's longing for home. The narrator is reminisces about his homeland, its people and its culture. The folksongs of Scotland are especially dear to him. Broadside ballads often mention other, more famous songs in their lyrics to evoke a memory or feeling, and this one is no exception.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The first night I was married, laid in my marriage bed / There came a bold sea-captain and stood at my bed side / Says arise arise O young man and go along with me / To the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar to fight the enemy.' A note below the title states that ' This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee'.
This ballad is a lament sung by a grieving young widow for her husband, who has been drowned on the rocks of Gibraltar, after being recruited to fight in a war. The narrative structure of this ballad is quite complicated, with contributions from the husband, wife, wife's mother and the anonymous narrator. Despite the young husband's death, the writer of the ballad tries to end on a positive note by reminding the grieving widow that she is young and can learn to love again. Although not dated, the references to the songs, 'Death of Nelson' and 'The Iron Horse' (a nickname for an early steam locomotive), in the advertisement at the bottom of the sheet, suggest that the ballad would probably have been written some time after 1820.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Noo, chaps and wunches a', / Div I no look reg'lar braw, / Since I 'listed for a sodger in the ranks? / Od! I've got a braw new hat.' The text preceding it reads: 'PRICE ONE PENNY / Copies of this popular Comic Song can always be had at 80 London St., Glasgow. / Tune- "Coal Jock".' This sheet was published on Saturday 22nd May, 1886.'
This song draws comparisons between the occupation of soldiering and that of coal mining - the military comes out on top, as the title would suggest. The skills gained, clothes provided and food are all highlighted in favour of the soldier's job. Britain at this time was still an empire and so had armed units deployed in most of her territory. Britain was also involved in two conflicts during this era, one in Sudan and one in Burma which meant more men and resources would have been required.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Wild blew the gale in Gibralter one night, / As a soldier lay stretched in his cell; / And anon, 'mid the darkness, the moon's silver light / On his countenance dreamily fell.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee. Beneath the title it is noted that the song was 'Recited with Great Success by D. WILKIE of DUNDEE'.
'Soldier's Pardon' recounts the tale of an English soldier sentenced to death for striking a cruel superior in a fit of temper. The song is dominated by a moving conversation between the soldier, Joe, and his comrade Tom, who is trusted with delivering Joe's last words to his loved ones in Devonshire. At the end of the song, however, Joe is pardoned, and the last image is of him reunited with his sweetheart. Such songs, featuring soldiers and sailors parted from their loved ones, were frequently featured on broadsides.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'O FAIR Innerleithen, and the River Tweed, / Whose beauty by nature, all art doth exceed, / Of this pleasing village, there's many heard tell, / And so have come here, to drink of our Well.' It was to be sung to the tune of 'The Blaeberries' and was published by W. Reid of Leith. Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut illustration.
The picturesque town of Innerleithen is nestled in the Tweed Valley, approximately six miles east of Peebles. In the nineteenth century it was a popular spa town, where people flocked to experience the curative properties of the mineral spring. The inspiration for Walter Scott's fictional spa town of St Ronan's is said to have been Innerleithen. Soon after the publication of Scott's book, 'St Ronan's Well' (1823), the name was adopted for the Innerleithen well.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'The Boar an' Geordie* tried a race, / Atween the pantry an' the brace, / Geordie fell an' brack his face - / The sow's tail to Geordie'. The footnote belonging to the star in the first line, explains that 'Geordie' is the Railway. The lyrics should be sung to the tune, 'Sow's Tail to Geordie'.
This sheet is an excellent example of the function of broadside literature in its society. To the modern reader the meaning of this text is virtually unintelligible and its point is quite lost. To readers of the day, however, who were familiar with the breaking news stories, slang and euphemisms of the day, this story would have probably been at the sharper end of the entertainment market.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Confession of the Murder of his own Aunt in John Street, Glasgow. / The morning was calm, and it dawned with joy, / To the hearts of the weary, now freed from employ. / And the day it was sacred, to rest set apart, / When Stirrat resolved to pierce his aunt's heart.' This sheet was published by the printer William Carse.
Robert Stirrat was a very popular name in the south-west of Scotland during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. As a result, this ballad may have been more of a moral warning than a factual report of the events. Broadside publishers, even at this time, tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined behaviour.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHO cares a single louse, / For Sir JOHN BOGHOUSE, / Or with AYTOUN pretends to compare him? / HE's a mere Tool of the Clique'. It was advertised as a new song and was to be sung to the tune, 'Saw Ye My Father'.
It appears from this broadside that Boghouse was standing for election as a Whig candidate. The author of this ballad does not look upon him or his politics favourably, and instead encourages people to vote for his opponent, Aytoun. Whilst there appears to be little or no information available on Boghouse, it seems likely that Aytoun was in fact James Aytoun (1797-1881), the well-known Radical who stood for election as member of parliament for Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Of all the Scottish northern chiefs, / Of high and warlike fame, / The bravest was Sir James the Ross, / A knight of meikle fame.' It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh.
Without at least an initial attached to the name Sanderson, it is difficult to know exactly which printer is mentioned here and, therefore, even more difficult to give this piece a time frame. It could be one of the Sanderson family associated with the Edinburgh Poet's Box. The text is about Sir James Ross - the 'the' in the title is to give the name a highland air, as this is how it would have been translated from Gaelic - and his love Matilda. The whole piece finishes with a 'Romeo and Juliet'-esque ending as Matilda throws herself on the sword which has just killed her lover James.
The Edinburgh Poet?s Box was in operation from around 1852 until about 1910. William Sanderson and from 1867 his son John had premises in the Canongate. The business passed over to John?s brother Charles in 1902. Few of the Sanderson broadsides bear the name Poet?s Box, but it is certain than the shop became known in Edinburgh at the Poet?s Box.  It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, but it is not known whether there was any connection between this enterprise and the Poet?s Boxes in Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Wade canny through this weary world'. The second ballad begins: 'On the banks of the Clyde stood a lad and his lassie'. The third ballad begins: 'Somewhere in the world the moon is shining'. The fourth ballad begins: 'This seven long years I've been a weaver'. The fifth ballad begins: 'There's nane may ever guess or trow my bonnie lassie's name'.
This sheet was published by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee, and includes a small illustration of a young girl holding up the edge of her skirt and curtseying. It is unusual to find five songs appearing on one broadside. Whilst it was reasonably common for two ballads to appear together, the majority of sheets only featured one ballad. The Dundee Poet's Box appears to have realised the attraction of the larger sheets and continued to produce them in significant quantities. Although it is not clear how much they sold for, the broadside-buying public probably believed the larger sheets were good value for money.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'THEY'RE dear to me, the hills of Perth, / Those rolling floods, these golden plains, / The home of joy, the land of worth, / Where beauty smiles and valour reigns!' These lyrics should be sung to the tune 'He's o'er the Hills'.
The main piece of contextual information given in this ballad is in the tenth stanza, 'With India's trophies round his bier', referring to the British Empire's colonial interests in India. The song is supposed to comfort the widow who has lost her husband and whose life is now in turmoil. To comfort her further lists of Scotland's great military leaders and her battles have been included, to add to her husband's heroic status.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Stilled are once more the shouts o' war, / And smiling peace returns. / There's sorrow noo in mony a hame, / There's mony a heart that mourns.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the broadside. However, a note at the foot of the sheet identifies the writer as 'Pte. J. Sibbald, 1st Black Watch'.
Apparently written by a private in the Black Watch, the themes explored in this ballad are almost identical to the points that Rudyard Kipling (1865-1936) raises in his famous poem, 'Tommy Atkins'. This private believes that the public should show far more respect for soldiers, considering that they so bravely sacrifice their lives in service of their country. The reality, however, claims the soldier, is that soldiers are treated like outcasts who, even if they survive the fighting, are most likely to die impoverished in the workhouse. The recurring theme of this ballad is a request to the public for respect and understanding towards British soldiers, and recognition that a 'rough exterior' can often hide 'the beauty of a soul'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I speak in candour, one night in slumber, / My mind did wander near to Athlone, / The centre station of the Irish nation, / Where a congregation unto me was shown.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Illustrated with woodcuts depicting religious images, this broadside appears to be a political ballad in support of the Irish Home Rule Movement. The writer makes repeated references to a female character called Granua (also spelt Grainne). The daughter of the mythical Irish warrior and folk hero, Finn McCool, Granua is also used as a symbol for Ireland - much like the figure of Britannia is employed as a symbol for Great Britain. Another interesting reference is the inclusion of the famous phrase, 'The Rights of Man', which suggests that the writer was familiar with the anti-establishment works of Thomas Paine (1737-1809).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'YE Coblers, and Taylors draw near, / Your Speecher is now turn'd Poet.' There are further handwritten marks and notes made on the sheet. There is no date, author or publisher given with this sheet.
Details such as date and place of publication and printer were not always given on broadsides. They were produced quickly and cheaply to satisfy a mass audiences' entertainment needs. They have only survived today because they interested later collectors, perhaps because of their variety and impermanence. The marks on this sheet were probably made by the collector or even collectors, but, as with the sheet itself, further information about these people is equally elusive.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come attend to my ditty, you frolicsome folks, / And I will tell you a story a comical joke; / Concerning a woman by auction was sold, / The husband and wife could never agree.' At the top of the sheet there is a woodcut illustration showing a man and woman having something to eat in a field. They are taking a break from their work and are positioned close to two hayricks. Three fieldworkers are visible in the background.
This ballad tells the tale of a ship carpenter's wife who was put up for auction, and bought for ten shillings by a sailor. Although this ballad is light-hearted and deals with the subject humorously, there were in fact genuine cases of women being sold by their husbands. At a time when a married woman was considered to be nothing more than a possession, both by her husband and the law, such practices did occur. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes one broadside detailing the sale of a woman, named Mary MacKenzie, on the 16th July, 1828, in Edinburgh's Grassmarket.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Ye envious Critics, try an' guess my name : / Thousands of times ye've seen an' heard the same : / Millions of times ye've given me offence, / But I must say, it's for the want of sense.' It was published by William Smith of 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh, and includes an elaborate illustration of a showman surrounded by interested onlookers.
Although there is no publication date on this broadside, it is known that William Smith resided at 3 Bristo Port between 1824 and 1829. He was also working from premises at 47 Crosscauseway, Edinburgh, around this time, which suggests that 'business was booming'. Although he produced a wide range of broadsides and chapbooks on different subjects, Smith is best remembered for his instruction booklets and works of a humorous nature. The person in the centre of the illustration is Daft Jamie, (James Wilson) who is referred to in the text. Jamie was a well-known character in Edinburgh, who entertained local children with riddles and jokes. Jamie, who was just 18 years old, was murdered by Burke and Hare in October 1828. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The text which introduces the recitation begins: 'John Wilson, late Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, was born in Paisley in 1785.' The recitation begins: '---Her giant form, / O'er wrathful surge, through blackening storm, / Majestically calm, would go / 'Mid the deep darkness white as snow'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box.
Professor John Wilson (1785-1854) wrote under the pseudonym of Christopher North. He was a considerable intellectual force and was a close friend of literary luminaries such as William Wordsworth and Robert Southey. He was editor of the influential and often controversial 'Blackwood's Magazine' between 1822 and 1835, and is best remembered as a pivotal figure in nineteenth-century Edinburgh literary society.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad was written by 'Glasgow's favourite comic singer', Charles Watson. We are told that he frequented the Shakespeare Saloon, which was in the Saltmarket, the principal area of the city for broadside publishing. Sung to the tune of 'Mr Cullen's Glasgow A B C', it begins, 'In this age of wonder, of fasion and delight, / Glasgow is the place of many a funny sight'. No printer is named but it is dated the morning of Saturday, May 2nd 1857, but it probably comes from the Glasgow Poet's Box.
The composition of these verses is rather amateurish but adds to the charm of this interesting ballad. Several prominent places in Glasgow are mentioned, and some commentary given on each. It concludes by mentioning the Shakespeare Saloon, its owner Mr Levy, and the fact that you can find Charlie Watson, the balladeer, there and he's 'always glad to see you'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The sea! the sea! the open sea! / The blue, the fresh, the ever free!'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
Lindsay worked from this address during the 1850s and so this sheet was probably published sometime during that decade. Many of Lindsay's sheets carry illustrations but they are often to compensate for short lyrics or flimsy content. Here, these lyrics were so long that Lindsay has even missed out some of his trademark, lengthy advertising.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'There was a sea captain was married of late / Unto a young lady, and gained her estate, / He was a sea captain and bound for the sea, / Before he was bedded he was called away'.
Ballads about sea captains and sailors appear to have been very popular in Scotland. This is hardly surprising, given the proliferation of harbours and ports around Scotland, and the importance of shipping routes to Scottish trade and the economy. This example tells the story of how the local squire and his servants cuckolded the captain while he was at sea for eight months. Upon his return his entire female staff were delivered of children. He forgave his wife, however, as he fathered a child in the West Indies whilst travelling!
It is fairly unusual for the topics of procreation, pregnancy and confinement to be discussed in such open detail, as they were considered to be socially unacceptable and bad mannered. It is reassuring to know, however, that people were only human, and were more than aware of the realities of their society and the situations around them.Verse 1: 'Fareweel, fareweel, my native hame, / Thy lonely glens an' heath clad mountain / Fareweel thy fields o' storied fame, / Thy leafy shaws an' sparklin fountains / Nae mair I'll climb the Pentland's steep, / Nor wander by the Esk's clear river, / I seek a hame far o'er the deep, / My native land, fareweel for ever.'
Many Scots emigrated to North America and to Australia in the eighteenth, nineteenth and even twentieth centuries. Although the geographical references in this poem suggest that it is narrated by a Lowlander, the greatest concentration of migrants came from the Highlands. Some of these were forced migrations, after landowners had cleared the people off their ancestral lands to make way for sheep. In the nineteenth century, the failure of the potato crop during the 1840s again increased numbers leaving the Highlands. The exodus inevitably inspired many laments, of which this is one example.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This military ballad begins: 'ARISE and let us now repair / And go away to Heriot's Green, / The sun doth shine, the day is fair, / To see the Volunteers convene.' A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the tune of 'O'er the Hills and Far Awa', which is a traditional English folk song. Although there are no publication details for this sheet, the ballad's reference to 'King and Country' suggests that it was most likely published some time between 1778 and 1837.
This regimental song celebrates the martial qualities of the Royal Edinburgh Volunteers, also known as the 80th Regiment of Foot. Formed in 1778, this regiment was originally recruited during the American War of Independence, and fought at Yorktown in October 1781. As the regiment surrendered at Yorktown, however, it is perhaps not surprising that the author instead focuses on the regiment's glorious successes against the French and Spanish. It seems that the regiment was disbanded in 1790, only to be reformed in 1793 as the 80th (Staffordshire Volunteers) Regiment of Foot. It could be that the song was employed by troops as a marching song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'SCOTS wha hae wi' Wallace bled, / Scots wham Bruce has often led, / Welcome to your gory bed, / On to Victory! / Now's the day and now's the hour, / See the front of battle o'er, / See approach proud Edward's power, / Chains and slavery.' The broadside was published by Pitts at the Toy and Marble Warehouse, 6 Great St Andrew Street in the Seven Dials area of London.
'Scots Wha Hae' is one of the most famous and popular songs by Robert Burns (1759-96), and appears on several broadsides held by the National Library of Scotland. In a letter to George Thomson (1757-1851), who composed the music for many of Burns's songs, the poet explained that he had written the patriotic words to fit a pipe air that he believed had been Robert Bruce's march at the Battle of Bannockburn. An indication of the spread of Burns's popularity beyond Scotland is given by the fact that this broadside was published in London, in an area called Seven Dials, which was historically the centre of broadside publishing in England's capital.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'TWO British Wits Conspir'd, / A Scottish Dream to Answer, / Both equally Inspir'd / With Nonsence, Punns and Banter; / Sense smil'd to see / Them so agree / In Bluntness and Stupiditie.' The broadside carries no date and no place of publication.
This scathing attack on the proposed union of the Scottish and English parliaments is believed to have been written by John Hamilton, Lord Belhaven (1656-1708) in response to Daniel Defoe's work 'The Vision' (1706), which extolled the idea of union. Defoe (1660-1731) worked in Scotland as an unofficial agent of the English government, gauging response to the talk of union and also, to some extent, trying to sell the idea. The Act of Union was eventually ratifed in 1707 despite the opposition of Belhaven and other Scots politicians. In the 1720s, the Scottish poet Allan Ramsay (1686-1758) published a pastiche of Defoe's 'The Vision'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'O, whaur gat ye that bonnie blue bonnet, / O, silly, blind body, canna' ye see; / I gat it frae a bonny Scots callan', / 'Atween Saint Johnstone and bonny Dundee.' 'Callan' or 'callant' is Scots for a 'young man' or a 'lad'. A note under the title informs the reader that new songs are issued every week and can be bought from the Poet's Box. A list of other available songs, including 'A Happy New-Year tae ye a'' and 'Birks o' Green Balgay', is given at the bottom of the sheet.
Unfortunately, there appears to be little known about the Poet's Boxes that sprang up in most of the major Scottish towns, including Edinburgh, Glasgow and Dundee. Although they printed and distributed in a similar way to many other broadside producers, they also published material upon request. This provided impecunious writers with the opportunity to have their work published cheaply.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come, rouse up your Heads, Come rouse up anon! / Think of the / Wisdom of old Solomon, / And heartily Joyn with our own Paterson, / To fetch Home INDIAN treasures'. Below the title, it is stated that this new song is sung to the tune of 'The Turks are all Confounded'.
This ballad is a celebration of the Scotch-Indian-company, better known as the Darien Company. Formed in 1695, the company's aim was to establish colonies that Scotland could use for trading purposes. A lengthy ballad, most of the verses make extravagant claims for the success that the company will achieve. However, the company never recovered from its disastrous attempt to set up a Scottish colony in Darien, Panama, in 1698, and it consequently folded in 1707. The failure of the Darien Company was a massive blow to Scottish confidence, and was one of the main reasons for the Union of 1707.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Of all the Scottish northern chiefs, / Of high and mightty name, / The bravest was Sir James the Rose, / A knight of meikle fame.' This ballad was published on 23rd January 1869 by the Poet's Box, London Street, Glasgow, priced one penny.
Although this ballad was published in 1869, it has the hallmarks of the older oral folk ballad tradition. Combat between a handsome young knight and a corrupt old lord was a recurring theme, and the tragic ending, where the young man sacrifices himself for love, was also quite common. The verse form of this ballad, with four-stress and three-stress lines alternating and  second and fourth lines rhyming, was the most frequently-used form in Scotland, and was known as 'common measure'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I never wis so happy the days o' my life, / It no' because that I hav' got a ducky o' a wife; / It's a' because ma' uncle deed tae mak' the matter clear, / An' left me - a fortin' o' twa hunner pounds a year.' This broadside was published by William Shephard at the Poet's Box in Dundee. The 'words and patter' were written by Alex Melville, the music was by Sam Tute and the song was 'sung with great success' by W.F. Frame.
The verses of this song are linked with passages of comic 'patter' which elaborate on the song and digress into various other topics. The song, and these interjections, were clearly designed for performance to an audience, perhaps in a music hall. Music halls were the most popular venues for public entertainment in the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, and it is probable that the broadside dates from this era. The lyricist, Alex Melville, is likely to be the Alex Melville who collaborated on songs with the pre-eminent Scots entertainer of the time, Harry Lauder (1870-1950).
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The sea! the sea! the open sea! / The blue, the fresh, the ever free! / Without a mark, without a bound, / It runneth the earth's wide regions round.' The broadside was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. It is not dated, but was probably published either between 1852 and 1859, or between 1891 and 1894, when Lindsay is known to have had premises at 9 King Street.
'The Sea!', written around 1837, is the best known work of the minor English poet Bryan Waller Procter or 'Barry Cornwall' (1787-1874). Procter was born in Leeds but spent most of his time in London, where his poetry and biographies were published and his plays performed. Although he is remembered for little more than 'The Sea' today, Procter's work was popular during his lifetime and attracted praise from poets such as Charles Lamb (1775-1834) and A.C. Swinburne (1837-1909), who are regarded now as far greater writers.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'SCOTS, wha hae wi' Wallace bled- / Scots, wham Bruce has aften led - / Welcome to your gory bed, / Or to victorie! / Now's the day and now's the hour! / See the front of battle lour! / See approach poor Edward's pow'r! / Chains, and slaverie!'
Verse 1: 'AND has she then fail'd in her truth, / The beautiful maid I adore, / Shall I never again hear her voice, / Nor see her lov'd form any more, / No, no, no, I shall never see her more.' This sheet was published in London for 'wholesale and retail'. The exact location of the publisher has been obscured.
This broadside contains a strange combination of songs. The second is a despairing tale of love lost. The first, 'Scots Wha Hae', is a hymn to Scottish independence written by Robert Burns. It was intended to be sung to an old Scots air, 'Hey, tuttie taitie', which was traditionally thought to have been Robert the Bruce's marching song at Bannockburn. When Burns wrote 'Scots Wha Hae' in 1794, the French Republic had just declared war on Britain, and publication of the song was delayed until 1799 because of its perceived revolutionary sympathies.This ballad begins: 'I Pray draw near and you shall hear / For what I lost my Coat Man, / It was my Lenity, not Invy, / Nor Rigitness I wot Man.' The text preceding it reads: 'R------- P------'s Complaint of his hard Fate, / OR THE / Town Officer's Lament for the Loss of his Coat. / To the Tune of the bonny Boat Man.' A woodcut has been included to make the sheet a more attractive purchase.
Town Officers carried out a variety of functions, although many of their duties would eventually be performed by the modern day police. They also carried out civil functions like carrying the council minute books and escorting parties to church. The job came with steady pay, good perks and a certain amount of authority and social standing - all of this made it really quite attractive. They were often issued with red coats and cudgels as symbols of and tools to reinforce this authority and cachet. Unfortunately they also had a reputation for hard drinking and this resulted in a high turnover of employees.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.The first ballad begins: 'There once was a cobbler by name Toby Brad, / Though he lived in a stall yet he didn't live bad, / with a tol de rol lol, &c.' There are no publication details on the sheet.
The second ballad begins: 'THE morning broke in blushes o'er me / As up the sunny hills I stray'd, / A beautious form appeared before me, When thus I spoke the lovely maid.'
The first ballad is about a cobbler, Toby Brad. Initially the reader is led to believe that, whilst at work mending shoes, he is visited by the devil. However, events take a comic turn when he discovers it was only some young boys trying to 'funk' or scare him. The second ballad is a traditionally romantic love song.Verse 1 begins: 'HOW sair a task wi' Doubt to wrestle! / Sax hours I've had your kind Epistle, / An' done nocht syne but fidge an' fisle / About the matter'. The ballad was written by J*** A*******. The sheet was published by J. and R. Childs of Bungay, Suffolk, on the 9th May 1822.
This dramatic narrative conveys the machinations of J.C.'s decision-making process. He has been invited to move from his present location, which is not given, into Edinburgh. The worries of employment, housing and moving to a new residency, however, play on his mind. This text gives his 'inner' arguments both for and against such a spontaneous life choice.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'Tho' I mingle in the throng / Of the happy and the gay, / From the mirth of dance and song / I would fain be far away; / For I love to use no wile, / And can but deem it sin, / That the brow should wear a smile / When the soul is sad within. / Tho' a parent's stern command / Claims obedience from me, / O, 'tis hard to give the hand / Where the heart can never be.' This song was published by the Poet's Box. The town or city is not specified, but it was probably published in Dundee.
This is clearly a song dissenting against something or somone, but exactly what or who is left unsaid. The title, which is also the song's refrain, emphasises that it is difficult to show loyalty to something or someone when one feels that loyalty is not merited. The song also mentions 'a parent's stern command' claiming 'obedience', but whether this refers literally to a person, or whether the 'parent' is a metaphor for a religious creed, or the government, or some other power, is again elusive. Broadside ballads expressing political or ideological dissent were quite numerous, and were often more directly critical than this song.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Although far frae hame and the blooming heather, / Thousands of miles across the deep sea, / At night, when I'm weary, my mind loves to wander / To the scenes of my boyhood, so dear unto me.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box at 10 Hunter Street in Dundee, but is not dated.This broadside ballad tells of the yearning that an exiled 'Lichtie' (native of Arbroath) has for his place of birth. Throughout the ballad, the nostalgic 'Lichtie' recalls people and places from his childhood, and closes by stating that, come what may, he will be buried in the grounds of Arbroath Abbey. Given that the subject of the poem is an emigrant who now lives across 'the deep sea', it seems likely that this ballad reflects the nostalgic emotions of the thousands of Scots who, from 1700 onwards, emigrated to the New World of North America and far-off places in the British Empire. The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market daysand feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley (run by William Anderson) in the early 1850s. Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Tis but a little faded flower, / But oh, how fondly dear, / 'Twill bring me back one golden hour, / Through many, through many a weary year'. Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at 80 London Street, Glasgow', which was the address of the Poet's Box. A further note states that the ballad was to be sung to an original air, while a footnote identifies the publication date as Saturday the 29th of January, 1887.
Using a faded flower from childhood as the central image and symbol of the ballad, this whimsically melancholic song muses on the subject of why we save seemingly trifling things for sentimental reasons. The author then goes on to consider how revealing it is that we often attach more value to our keepsakes, than we do to valuable jewels. Below the ballad, there is an advertisement informing the public about the wide range of publishing services that the Poet's Box can offer its customers. From reading this list, it seems that W.M. Leitch's business could publish just about anything that the public might want, regardless of geographical location.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: ' In June, when broom an' bloom was seen, / An' brackens waved fu' fresh an' green.'
Broadside songs are often anonymous and difficult to date, mainly because they are based in the oral, communal tradition. This song is no exception. Its themes of rural Scotland, marriage and a wedding feast would have been instantly recognisable to most people. The chorus is also a meaningless but tuneful and repetitive ditty which is a feature of songs from the oral tradition. This made them easier to remember and allowed for greater audience participation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'It was on a Monday morning, / In the spring time of the year'. Published by James Lindsay from 9 King Street, Glasgow, this sheet also incorporates an illustration of a pretty basket of wild flowers above the title. This helps to enhance the mood of the ballad. 'Tid' is the Scots word for mood.
This ballad addresses two very popular themes: marriage and parental guidance. The daughter of the piece is in the mood to marry, but has no particular preference. Meanwhile, her mother thinks she should wait until someone trustworthy manifests and enjoy her freedom in the meantime. It is not revealed who wins the argument! It is revealing of attitudes of the time that the daughter feels she has long been ready to marry despite being only sixteen, while her mother, more normally, married at 14.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This ballad begins: 'Many a night, from the silent deck, / Have I gaz'd on the stars above, / And I've looked abroad o'er the tranquil sea / Till my heart was filled with love. / Thinking of home, and the dear ones there, Till I felt the tear-drops flow; / Breathing in slience a fervent pray'r / For the friends of long ago.' It was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, was priced at one penny, and was published on Saturday, 25th September 1869 by the Poet's Box in Glasgow.
The theme of lovers separated was a common one in the ballad tradition from the earliest days. Often the ballad would be narrated by a young woman left at home while her lover pursued some romantic or heroic vocation, perhaps as a soldier, a sailor, or a traveller. This later song offers a less common perspective, being narrated by the traveller rather than the lover left at home, but it is still a touching evocation of loneliness, as the narrator describes looking at the stars from the deck of his ship and dreaming of his family and his sweetheart.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'A sexton stood one Sabbath eve within a belfry grand, / Awaiting signal from the church with bell-rope in his hand'. The second ballad begins: 'I heard a song, a tender song, / 'Twas sung for me alone'. The third ballad begins: 'A music hall was crowded in a city o'er the sea, / Brilliant lights were flashing everywhere'. The fourth ballad begins: 'After the din of the battle's roar, / Just at the close of day'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I'm a very absent-minded man, / I'll have you understand, / I might be looking for a thing, / And have it in my hand'. Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, OVERGATE, DUNDEE'.
This amusing ballad lists a number of funny episodes that result from a man?s forgetfulness and absent-mindedness. In addition to losing such objects as his spectacles and dress suite, however, it seems that the husband in this ballad is so absent-minded that he can even forget about his wife's whereabouts! Many light-hearted broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come all you good people wherever you be / Of high and low station and every degree, / If you'll pay attention and listen to me - / I'll tell you a few things I'd like to see.'
This is a good example of the political use of the broadside genre. Many of the publications were anonymous and the author of the lyrics was likewise unknown. It often cost money to record these two pieces of information, and besides, these were the older equivalents of 'tomorrow's fish and chip wrappings'. The audience reached by broadsides was vast and fairly up to date on topical news due to the proliferation of publications. It means that much of the symbolism and shorthand is lost to us today but would have been immediately recognisable then. As a result this genre was an ideal forum for cutting-edge criticism and idealism.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Tis but a little faded flower, / But oh, how fondly dear, / 'Twill bring me back one golden hour, / Through many, through many a weary year'. Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box 182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE'.
This thoughtful and whimsical ballad muses on the subject of why we save seemingly trifling things, such as a flower or a lock of hair, for sentimental reasons. Employing a faded flower from childhood as the central image of the ballad, the writer shows how we treasure such mementoes in order to inspire happy memories of the past. The writer then goes on to ponder how interesting it is that we often attach more value to our keepsakes, than we do to rare jewels. In short, this melancholic ballad appears to comment on the paradoxical manner in which the past exists in the present for us, and concludes by reminding us about the transient nature of life.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I'm a bold Irish hero, who never yet was daunted, / In the courting of a pretty girl I very seldom wanted, / In the courting of a pretty girl I own it was my folly, / I would venture my life for you, my pretty Molly.' Chorus: 'Mush a ring a do a da, fal lal da do da addy, / Mush a ring a do a da, there's whisky in the jar.' This broadside was printed by the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow, on 'Saturday morning, Dec. 16, 1871'.
As this was a popular song the Poet's Box published it on a number of occasions, including around 1850 when they had premises at 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow. An advert offering to post songs 'to any part of the country' upon receipt of the correct number of postage stamps has been included along with a catalogue of the most recent songs available from the Poet's Box.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Let your motto ne'er be strow, / For singhing always gives me pain, / Clouds and steams will rise to-morrow, / And the grass will grow again.' It was written and sung by Harry Linn and could be purchased from the Poet's Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee.
Unfortunately, little is known about the composer and performer Harry Linn. He appears to have been a popular entertainer in the Music Halls of the late nineteenth century, performing his own compositions to large audiences. The broadside-buying public would have likely been familiar with his name, and its inclusion on this sheet probably guaranteed healthy sales. Another of his compositions, which he wrote in the 1870s, was entitled 'A Country Life'. It begins: 'I love to roam through the bright, green fields'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'One day while walking down the street, an old pal I did meet, / I scarcely would have known him, for he looked so ill and weak, / And as he grasped me by the hand, these words to me he said - / Dear Jim, I don't know what to do, for all I love are dead.' A note below the title states that this ballad was 'Written by D. Milligan, sung T. Ball, of Dundee', and that 'Copies of this can be had at the Pox Box, Overgat, Dundee'.
Employing the familiar metaphor of life being a hazardous sea journey with many perils, this sombre - yet warm-hearted - ballad tells of how the more fortunate people should help those fellow travellers who end up stranded on the rocks. The chorus strongly reinforces this Christian message of being a good Samaritan to those in trouble, and giving them a place by the fireside. Although not dated, the ballad vaguely hints at some episode that recently led to loss of life around Scotland's shores - hence the sentiment of the song's message.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Farewell to Glasgow, / Likewise to Lanarkshire, / And Farewell my dearest parents, / For I'llne'er see you mair; / For the want of pocket money, / And for the want of cash, / Makes mony a bonny laddie / To leave his bonny lass.' The broadside was published by James Lindsay of King Street in Gasgow. It is not dated.
This song is about a young man forced by poverty to leave his country and the woman he loves to join the army. This was a common topic in broadside ballads, and 'The Bonnie Lasses' Answer' was clearly a popular example of the genre, that was reprinted by various broadside publishers. This version includes a woodcut illustration to make it attractive to audiences. The title refers to the final line of the chorus, when the 'Bonnie Lass' cries 'no, no' in response to her sweetheart's decision to leave.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This report and ballad begins: 'A Seasonable Advice, / TO ALL /  who encline to go in Pirrating ; / DRAWN FROM / What has happ'ned to Captain Green, / as it were from his ovvn mouth, / One of that rank. / To the tune of, to the weaver if ye go, &c.' The name of the publisher is not included.
Written in a triumphalist tone, this broadside ballad was ghost-written from the viewpoint of the English sea-captain, Thomas Green, who was executed at Leith in 1705 on a trumped-up charge of piracy. Invoking the memory of William Wallace and capitalising 'SCOTS' and 'GOD' throughout the ballad, the anonymous Scottish writer uses Captain Green?s dreadful fate as a warning to other Englishmen not to 'wrong the SCOTS'. Since the context for this tragic story is the failure of the Darien Company and the scheming of unscrupulous politicians participating in the Union negotiations, this broadside might well have been used as anti-Union rhetoric.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Two little boys, whose pallid looks / Bespoke them worn with care, / Came to a house in Haddington, / And ask'd for lodgings there.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
Opening with a sermon-like introduction, this instructional broadside is all about the strength that a person can possess if they believe in God. To spread the message, the sheet employs a sentimental narrative concerning two small boys from London, who heroically journey through a godless wilderness to Haddington, Edinburgh.These orphans, whose parents were killed by a fever, are offered six shilling for their sole possession, a bible. However, the boys claim that they would rather starve than sell their bible. The moral of the tale seems to be that those who place their faith in the Lord will be provided for.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Come fill up your Glasses, / And drink your toast round'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and there is a woodcut depiction of a windmill and grand house included at the top of the sheet.
The abuse of alcohol is now closely associated with nineteenth-century Britain - with gin and beer automatically featuring in today's perception of the period. It must have also been a recognised problem at the time as the 1830s and 1840s saw an increase in the spread of the temperance movement. This ballad, however, is a fight back against temperance. The exact importance of 'writer Anderson' is largely lost on today's readers though, illustrating the ephemeral role of the sheet.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Let ilk drouthie neighbour that likes a wee drap, / Rejoice o' the gill-stoup, and laugh o'er the cup, / Let them boast o' their fiddle, and crack o' their sang, / But the Tee-total job's been a guid thing for me. / Let them boaet &c.' 'llk' means 'each', 'drouthie' means 'thirsty' and a 'gill-stoup' is a tumbler or pitcher that holds one gill of fluid.
In this song the narrator describes the experiences that persuaded him to give up drinking alcohol. There are no publication details, making it difficult to tell when the song dates from. Despite Scotland's reputation for hard drinking, the country has had a strong temperance movement for almost two hundred years. The movement reached its height in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, when various local authorities voted areas of their jurisdictions free from licensed premises, or 'dry', under the local veto acts.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Two jolly old Topers once sat at an inn, / Discussing the merits of Brandy and Gin'. The sheet was published by R. McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, which is in Glasgow.
The theme of this broadside - the dangers of drink - is a very common one. Indeed, many of the crime-related broadsides held by the National Library of Scotland cite alcohol as mainly, or solely, responsible for criminal behaviour. Similarly here, a spell in the 'Teetotal Mill' is named as a cure for disease, marital problems, bad language, financial troubles and weakness - alcohol having been the root cause of these ills.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first two lines of this ballad read: 'You see before you an Irish gossoon, / From Castleblaney to this town I came,'. It is to be sung to the 'Original' tune, which suggests that people were already familiar with both the song and tune. Priced at one penny, copies were available from the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'When Charlie first came to the North, / With the manly looks o' a Highland laddie'.There is no place or date of publication.This song was popular broadside topic and there are many examples of it from various time periods in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Although Jacobite leanings were clearly traitorous, and dangerous after 1746, this continued to be published. The strength of Catholic, Scottish and monarchists' feelings about the line of inheritance of the British throne may be gauged by publications such as this.Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'On the fifteenth day of August, / In the year of Forty Three, / That glorious day, I well may say, / Recorded it will be'. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847), known as 'the Liberator' for his role in achieving Catholic Emancipation, was the leader of the powerful Repeal Association, whose aim was to repeal the Act of Union (1800) between Britain and Ireland thus gaining total Irish emancipation. After numerous political manoeuvring, O'Connell organised rallies which became so well attended that they were named 'monster meetings'. The meeting at Tara, Co. Meath in the summer of 1843, is now estimated to have been attended by 750,000 people.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'I am the king of sporting blades, / In Dublin city used to abide, / For courting the pretty fair maids, / Both far and near; / I have been in Italy and, / I have been in France and Spain, / Sicily and Germany, / And now I am back home again.'
This risque ballad tells the story of a lowly soldier who, due to his legendary prowess with his sword, ends up working as a personal servant for the colonel's wife. Although this promotion might sound like a step up in the world, the jealous colonel ends up shooting the soldier in the groin. The ballad is ribald and highly camp in tone, with innuendo and double entendres dominating throughout. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When I used to work on the levee, / many happy darkies there you see; / Cotton coming in so very heavy, / Oh, jolly, there was lots of work for me; / Black man hauling in the cargo, / Sun am very hot upon the head; / When he done he dance a jargo, / Rum, tum on the banjo, and then to bed.' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune. The broadside, priced one penny, was published on Saturday, 4th June 1870 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
This song focuses on African-American slaves and ex-slaves in the United States of America. The black cotton workers are portrayed as fortunate and happy in their work and relaxation. There are even references to them being free, and being paid silver dollars by white men. This suggests that this ballad was written after 1865, when slave-owning was finally abolished in the U.S.A, and that it may be a piece of propaganda praising white magnanimity. In reality, the legacy of slavery was terrible prejudice and poverty, which effectively continued to enslave many African-Americans for years. Racist names in the song indicate reveal the prejudice that still existed.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Noo, yae simmer's nicht I gaed oot for a / walk, / An' wis daunnerin' alang by a stream, / When a bonnie bit lassie I happened tae / meet, / She wis spreadin' oot claes on the green.' Sung by J.G. Roy with great success, this song could be purchased from 192 Overgate, Dundee, for one penny.
The verses of this comic song are interposed with spoken passages, which offer insightful comments on the events unfolding in the song. If performed well, as it clearly was by J.G. Roy, this style of composition would have been particularly popular with audiences. The comic 'patter' created an immediate intimacy and rapport between the performer and those listening. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes several other songs written in this style, including 'The Dooley Fitba' Club' and 'The Storm on the Paisley Canal'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 (to the tune of 'Oxgangs'): 'There is a wee house stands at the Bridgend, / A canty wee fire, I'm sure ye may ken, / For a' the folk round about, callants an' meu / Comes in to see Tammie the tollman.' Below the title we are given detailed information about the poet and his published works. A 'tollman' collected tolls from travellers on turnpike roads. 'Canty' means cheerful and 'callants' is 'an affectionate term for lads'.
Written by Peter McLennan, this light-hearted broadside ballad is dedicated to a tollman called Tammie, who lived in a tollbooth eight miles north-east of Glasgow. Judging by the verses of this ballad, it appears that Tammie's humble dwelling was a popular port of call for travellers. In addition to describing Tammy's house and style of living, the ballad also tells us much about the diversity of traffic that travelled on this road. With its references to events such as the Great Exhibition of 1851, this ballad reveals much about the social history of Victorian Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Quo' Nell, my wife, the ither day, / Provisions they are cheap man; / And for the trifle it wud tak', / A sow we weel micht keep, man; / Indeed, says I, my dearest Nell, / I've just been thinking sae mysel', / And since we've on the notion fell, / I'll just gang doon to Mattie Broon, / This afternoon, and vera soon / Bring hame yin in a rape, man.'
'Tam Gibb and his Sow' is a wonderful Scots comic song about a man who buys a sow and then loses control of it on his way home. The layout of the broadside, which includes transcriptions of the spoken sections between verses, marks the song very clearly as a performance piece. The song contains great examples of the vividness of the Scots language in words like 'grumphy', meaning 'pig', 'glaur', meaning 'sticky mud', 'skaith' meaning 'harm' or 'injure', and 'dree', meaning 'endure'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'IN Winter when the Rain rains cald, / And frost and snaw on Elka Hill.' This sheet was published by John Moncur of Sclater's Close, Edinburgh in 1707.
Both the tune and the lyrics of this ballad were favourites of the Scottish folksinger David Kennedy (1825-7), whose memorial can be found on Calton Hill, Edinburgh. The tune is thought to have been re-written from the English folksong, 'Greensleeves'. This is one of the earliest Scottish records of the lyrics. Part of them, however, were spoken by Iago in Shakespeare's 'Othello', although he refers to King Stephen and not King Robert.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Young Susan was a blooming maid / So valliant stout and bold.' The second ballad begins: 'FAREWELL ye splendid citadels, that metropolis call'd Paris' / Where Phoebes every morning shoots forth her revolving beams.' The third ballad begins: 'It was in yon meadows I carelessly did stray, / And I beheld a lady fair with some young sailor gay.' As this sheet includes three ballads for the price of one, the chapmen who sold broadsides to the public would have marketed this one as a bargain.
Although, at first glance, these three ballads might appear incongruous, 'Susan's Adventures' and 'British Man-of-War' appear to be part of a pair. For both songs tell of a young woman called Susan, whose sweetheart - William - is a sailor who serves on board a British warship. Written in a lofty and epic style, the third ballad is a commemorative song to celebrate Wellington's defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo in 1815, and the French Emperor's subsequent banishment to the island of St Helena, in the South Atlantic.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye gentlemen listen to my humble song, / And I will declare what I think to be wrong'. A woodcut decoration has been included between the title and the verses.
This sheet addresses itself to the ridiculousness of complete inactivity on a Sabbath. There are many sheets contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail Sabbath breaking. According to many of the crime reports and moral texts this is one of the gravest offences to commit and truly imperils the immortal soul. The sheet also refers to the Corn Laws and beer and sugar tax.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Arouse true friends to Freedom's cause. / Ye working men arise! / repel with scorn your sneaking foes, / Their lawless schemes despise. / United stand! defend your cause - / be faithful, firm and true - / By sound and honest argument / The right will wrong subdue, / Then flourish long the Sunday boat, / The captain and the crew.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Scotland Yet'. The publisher was James Lindsay of King Street, Glasgow.
This ballad is based around an event in 1853 that came to be known as the 'Battle of Garelochhead'. Sir James Colquhoun, an owner of land around the Clyde estuary, objected to Sunday tourist cruises down the Clyde, and refused to allow day trippers on to his land. When the paddle steamer 'Emperor' tried to moor at Garelochhead pier, locals mobilised by Colquhoun barricaded the pier, but eventually were routed by the tourists, most of whom were from Glasgow.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.These ballads begin: 'Good people all pray give attention, / Some simple facts I'm going to mention' and 'As I walked out one morning fair, all in the summer time, / Each bush and tree was dressed in green & valleys in their prime.' The publisher of the broadside was James Lindsay of King Street in Glasgow.
The first of these two songs is probably a reaction to an incident from 1853, when the paddle steamer 'Emperor' was banned from making Sunday cruises on the Clyde after a court battle waged by the landowner Sir James Colquhoun. Previously Sir James and his supporters in Garelochhead had physically tried to prevent tourists from disembarking from the 'Emperor' onto Colquhoun land. 'The Dawning of the Day' is a non-locally specific ballad about a girl young who is seduced and abandoned. This was a common ballad theme.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 and chorus: 'He. About my wife I mean to sing a very funny song, / She. I hope that you will tell the truth let it be right or wrong, / He. You know you are an arrant scold, both out of doors and in, / She. I knew you brute it was a lie before you did begin. / He. So you are inclined I still do find, the breeches for to wear, / She. No dear not I, but I will die, or I will have my share.'
This ballad deviates from the more traditional 'story' form, taking the structure of a line-about argument between man and wife. While ballad recitations often involved the performer assuming different characters or voices, the rapid-fire exchanges in this example would have been far more effective with two performers. It is thus likely that this song was written in the nineteenth century, when music halls with ensemble casts had begun to gain in popularity.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Our Yeoman are on an' awa, brave boys, / Our Yeoman are on an' awa'. This sheet was published by Webster of Horse Wynd, Edinburgh.
The 'Webster' mentioned here is most probably David Webster, a printer and bookseller, who worked out of Horse Wynd between 1817 and 1823. The ballad itself is followed by a publisher's note which claims that the lyrics are based on a Jacobite song, 'O Kenmure is on an' awa, Willie', but have been given a loyalist twist. Webster in his note, however, then goes on the make fun and satirise the Hanoverian lines.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'St. Peter stood guard at the golden gate, / With a solemn mien and an air sedate'. It was published by David Baxter of 32 Brunswick Street, Glasgow, and would have cost a penny to buy.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ye Noblemen and Gentlemen / Who're come to join the Fun, / To see the Races o'er again, / And Nymphs upon the Town.' A note below the title states that this broadside was 'Hawked by a black badger, his secretary', and that the ballad should be sung to the air, ' O' a the arts the wind, &c'. Although the publisher is not named and the sheet is not dated, it was printed somewhere in Edinburgh.
This ballad continues the ancient tradition of the Reynard the Fox fables. These allegorical stories have existed in Europe for over 800 years, and tell of how a cunning fox regularly outwits a royal court made up of other animals. An advertisement below the ballad promotes the services of Peter Puzzlewit and Co., and lists the services that they offer. As no address is included, however, it could be that this funny surname is intended to continue the Reynard the Fox tradition of mysterious anonymity. The sporting ladies in question were, in all probability, prostitutes who had arrived in Edinburgh to entertain 'gentlemen', possibly at Leith races.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Dear me what a change has seen our Nation, / Since we've reform'd out legislation, / Each M.P. as is now the fashion, / Brings a new bill every session.' A note above the ballad states that it should be sung to the air of 'Kate Dalrymple'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box, 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow, and cost one penny.
This light-hearted ballad is a satirical attack on the Sabbatarian, Sir Andrew Agnew (1793-1849), and his proposed bill to force people to observe the Sabbath more closely. The ballad-writer certainly provides his audience with an entertaining read, as he exaggerates the effects that such legislation would have in Scotland. For instance, he quips that the sheep will have to stop bleating and the cows must leant to milk themselves. Pregnant women, meanwhile, must postpone their labours until the Monday. Although the topic is treated in an amusing manner, the kirk session courts formerly possessed much power and influence over the parish, so this ballad indicates the gradual social shift that was taking place in Victorian Scotland.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verseThis ballad begins: 'The line to Heaven by Christ was made, / With heavenly truth the rails are laid'. It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and features a woodcut illustration of a man preaching to a small crowd.
Many broadside producers felt it was their public duty to provide their readership with various forms of moral and religious guidance. This included publishing everything from highly repentant last speeches uttered from the gallows to the journey of the spiritual railway. In this interesting analogy, repentence is the station where people hop on board the heavenly-bound train, God's word and truth drive the engine, and 'Repentance, Faith and Holiness' can all be found in first, second and third class respectively.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: THus lurking as alone I lay, / where there was no Repair, / A Maid before me on the way, / I heard a Greeting fair: / Her Moan was loud it mov'd the Air, / to hear her still I stood, / She was lamenting evermair, / for fault of Tocher good.' The ballad was to be sung 'To an Excellent Old Tune'.
This ballad is about a young woman overheard lamenting that she cannot find a husband 'for want of tocher-good'. In Scotland a 'tocher' was the bride's family's contribution to a marriage arrangement, and might consist of household items such as linen, silverware or crockery. A generous tocher would obviously be attractive to prospective suitors. When this ballad was written, a woman's social standing would have been governed her marital status, and spinsterhood was greatly feared by many women. The word 'tocher' is Scots, derived from Gaelic 'tochradh'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all you craftsmen that do with, / To propagate the grand design. / Come enter into this bright temple, / And learn the craft that is sublime.' A woodcut of a small, low square building has been included at the top of the sheet.
Oddly enough the tune to the 'Sons of Levi', as it is normally known, has links with the earlier Jacobite song, 'Mo Ghile Mear'. Despite this origin the song was eventually inherited, from the Freemasons, by the Orange Lodge and is still part of their repertoire. The song is a description, in biblical terms, of a new member's initiation. Today, there is much controversy surrounding the origins of the Freemasons and it is curious to note that the Knights Templar and the Knights Hospitallers are both mentioned here.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye sons of old Scotland and Ireland too, / Draw near and I'll sing you a song that is true'. There are no publication details included on this sheet.
Ireland and Scotland shared a political fate - both of their national symbols had been or were under prohibition. In Scotland after the Jacobite rebellion (1746) tartan, bagpipes, thistles and so forth were all banned. In Ireland shamrocks and the wearing of green especially, were frowned upon as they represented nationalist sentiments. This song although not anti-unionist, is pro-Irish and Scottish, as it attributes England's success and pride to Scottish and Irish influences.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This ballad begins: ' MY Daddie left me geer enough, / A coulter and an old Beam Plough, / A nebbed staff and a nuting Tyne, / An Angle Bend with Hook and Line.' It was to be sung to the tune of 'Willie Winkies Farewell'. A 'coulter' was a piece of farm machinery and a 'nuting Tyne' was a nut-hook.
This clever comic song is a mock last will and testament. More than half the poem is taken up listing the late farmer's property and assets, before it is revealed 'And it was all for want of geer, That gart me steall the parlous Mare'. This implies that the farmer was probably hanged for stealing a horse in impoverished desperation. In a second irony, the final line reveals that the total value of the will is scarcely four Scots pounds.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Now tell me, Mary, how is that you can look so gay, / When evening after evening your husband is away?' This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. There is a woodcut illustration included above the title which depicts a desert scene of women and men interacting.
This sheet reveals how a wife has improved marital relations and her own mental health by accepting her husband's neglect and drinking habits with both serenity and cheerful fortitude. There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which offer advice and scenarios to improve relationships and lifestyles.
On a more serious note, there are also sheets of crime reports which feature stories of neglect, brutality and alcohol abuse amongst both men and women. This seems to have been a very real, and fairly open, aspect of nineteenth-century society.This ballad begins: 'On the Banks of Clyde I happened to wander, / In the month of August, when flowers was in bloom; / On the beauties of nature my mind it did ponder, / I heard an aged female who was making sad moan'. A woodcut illustration has been included at the top of the sheet, showing three men standing in front of a crouching figure. They are in a room with a vaulted ceiling.
Although this claims to be 'Widow MacFarlane's Lamentation for Her Son', it is highly unlikely that she actually wrote it. Broadside producers kept a keen eye on the market, and for particularly sensational or newsworthy crimes often produced a sequence of sheets covering every possible angle. Hans Smith MacFarlane and Helen Blackwood were executed in 1853, in Glasgow, for the murder of Alexander Boyd. Their case sparked a lot of interest and, as a result, received a great deal of coverage at the time.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'All ye Wifes in this Town / Thats moved for your Men, / And ye that puts on Mourning deep / When they are dead for them;' This ballad was apparently 'Composed by one of her own SEXES'.
'The Widdow's Rant' features a widow whose late husband is rumoured to be haunting her because of her affairs with other men and spendthrift ways. The widow claims she was driven to infidelity by her husband's fleas, and the ballad ends with her finding a new man who has the 'skill' of 'killing fleas, and healing stings, / which tempted her most ill.' This song was apparently sung at a wedding, but whether the 'widow' in the poem was meant to represent the new bride is unknown! Interestingly, the widow's name in the title is not the same as in the poem.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'There dwells a Man into this Town, / some say they call him Finlay, / He is a brisk and able Man, / O! if I knew but Finlay,' The ballad was to be 'Sung with it's own proper Tune'.
This ballad is narrated by a woman, who recalls her clandestine, implicitly sexual encounter with a young man named Finlay. The ballad subverts the stern prebyterian moral codes that prevailed in Scotland between the sixteenth and the nineteenth centuries. The narrator is no passive innocent or victim: not only does she recall the tryst with pleasure, but it is she who arranges it in the first place, having heard of Finlay's 'reputation'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Come voters now, come every one, / Vote for Campbell as fast's you can; / Don't let a Tory into the chair, / For he'll lead you into a snare.' The chorus begins: 'Campbell is coming, Hurrah! Hurrah!' It was composed by John McLean, 'Coal-miner, and Poet Laureate to his Baccanalian Majesty', and includes a woodcut illustration of a mounted soldier.
There are many broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection that deal with the political tensions between the Tories, the Whigs and the Radicals in Edinburgh in the early 1830s. 'Campbell' is most likely the London-based lawyer and Whig, Sir John Campbell, who stood as a Parliamentary candidate for Edinburgh in the 1834, 1835 and 1837 . This song which concerns the 1834 election, not only calls on people to vote for Campbell, but also recognises 'Aytoun' as a suitable candidate. In this instance 'Aytoun' is most likely James Aytoun (1797-1881), a well-known member of the Radical Party in Edinburgh, who stood in the same election. The author of this piece, John McLean, does not appear to mind which of the two men people vote for, as long as their vote keeps the Tories out!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The sea was bright, and the bark wore well / The breeze bore the tone of the vasper bell. / 'Twas a gallant bark. with a crew as brave / As ever launch'd on the heaving wave.' A 'bark' is a small sailing ship, usually one with three masts and a square-sized stern. Below the title, a note states that 'Copies of this song can always be had at the Poets BOX  BOX 190  192 Overgate  DUNDEE'. Unfortunately, no date of publication is included on the sheet.
This sad ballad employs poetic imagery to tell the story of a small ship that was engulfed by a massive ocean wave, just as it was about to reach the safe haven of a nearby port. The language used to describe the temperamental sea conjures up an image of some almighty deity. This image is supported by the writer's earlier reference to 'the Grecian isles', a setting which fires the imagination with thoughts of Neptune and Proteus. The ballad is very much about man's helplessness and insignificance, when confronted with elements far more powerful than himself.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The laverock mounts the airy sky, / And pours his sweetest notes on high, They charm the wanderer's ear gaun by, / But no sae much as Sannie, O!' At the top of the sheet there is a note: 'This Song is Copyright and the exclusive Property of the Author.' However, the author's name is not given and the sheet carries no other publication details.
'Whistling Sannie' is a song about a boy or man who is loved by women for his whistling ability. He is favourably compared to different songbirds, which are all identified by their Scots names rather than the more familiar English ones. A 'laverock' is a lark, a 'linti' or 'lintie' is a linnet, and a 'mavis' is a thrush. 'Sannie' is also Scots, and is one of many abbreviations of Alexander.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The laverock mounts the airy sky, / And pours his sweetest notes on high, / They charm the wanderer's ear gaun by, / But no sae much as Sannie, O!' The chorus begins: 'Then hey for Sannie, clever chiel, / Then hoy for Sannie, famed fu' weel'.
This ballad is a tribute to 'Whistling Sannie', who could pit his tuneful talents against those of the sweetest songbirds. It is a glowing testament not only to his abilities, but also to his character. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Where has Scotland found her fame, / Why is she enshrined in story, / By the deed of many a name, / Sing the theme of deathless story. / By her mountains wild and grand, / By her lakes so calmly flowing, / By her peace that rules the land; / And her hearts so truly glowing.' The publication details of this broadside have been obscured.
The print quality of this broadside indicates that it is almost certainly from the nineteenth century, when Scotland's international profile was at its greatest. The romantic movement in the arts was interested in the picturesque and in the notion of the 'noble savage', and Scotland produced literature, in James Macpherson's 'Ossian' poems and Walter Scott's novels, that drew on the Highland landscape and Scottish clan history and mythology, making the authors international bestsellers. Simultaneously, Scotland was becoming a world leader in developing industrial technology. The ballad is thus justified in claiming that Scotland's fame lies in 'art', 'science' and 'romantic story'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: The way I came to wear this hat / Is very strange and funny, / Grandfather died and left to me / His property and money.' The text preceding it reads: 'Price one penny. / Can be had at the Poet's Box Overgate, Dundee.'
These lyrics would eventually turn into the ironic common saying 'Where did you get that hat'. The words themselves were re-written in 1901 by James Rolmaz. He gave them a more political twist with comments about society and the Prince of Wales being passed. The comic sentiments expressed in these lyrics would probably have been highly entertaining and instantly recognisable to most of  those in the audience.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all ye jolly shepherds, / That whistle through the glen, / I'll tell you o' a secret / What is the greatest bliss / That the tongue o' man can name? / 'Tis to woo a bonnie lassie / When the kye come hame.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated. 'Kye' means 'cows'.
In the writer's desire to show that earning the love of a good woman is the best possession that a man can attain in life, this broadside ballad contrasts the wonders of nature with worldly riches, to show that love triumphs over everything else. The author of this ballad was James Hogg (also known as the Ettrick Shepherd) who lived from 1770 to 1835. It was first published as 'The sweetest thing the best thing' in Hogg's novel The three perils of man (London, 1822)  and then revised as 'When the kye come hame' with music in Blackwood's Magazine in May 1823. Further revisions were made in 1831.It has been reprinted numerous times in collected editions of Hogg's works and also in other works.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When Johnny comes marching home again, hurrah! hurrah! / We'll give home a cheery welcome then hurrah hurrah; / The men will cheer the boys will shout, the ladies they will all turn out, / We'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marching home.' This broadside carries no publication details.
'When Johnny Comes Marching Home' was written by Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore (1829-92). Gilmore was born in Ballygar, County Galway in Ireland. Apparently inspired by a British military band he had seen as a child, Gilmore learned how to play the trumpet and moved to Boston in the US, where his musical talents became renowned. 'When Johnny Comes Marching Home', about a soldier returning from war, was inspired by the Battle of Gettysburg, in July 1863, when the tide of the American Civil War began to turn in favour of the Union. The song was hugely popular and is still often heard today.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Sit ye down here, my cronies, and gie us your crack, / Let the wind tak the care o' this life on its back'. The song should be sung to an original tune and would have cost a penny to buy. It was published on Saturday morning, 27th November, 1869, by the Poet's Box of 80 London Street, Glasgow.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Who can Sufficiently approve, / Of the Fam'd Doctor's Wit and Love, / Who sometime e're his former wife, / To Death resign'd had her Life . . . ' 'Tincklarian' means 'tinker-like'.
This bawdy and light-hearted ballad describes the colourful social life led by the tinker doctor, William Mitchel. The adjective, 'Tincklarian', suggests that the doctor was probably a quack doctor, who sold potions and snake-oil medicines to unwary members of the public. It appears that the doctor was quite a ladies' man, and often entertained them at a location called the 'Bon-Head', most likely a public house. His existence as a single man-about-town ended, however, when Ann Stewart entered his life, and this momentous meeting eventually ended in the marriage of the ballad's title.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'There is a wee lassie sitting at the door a' her lane, / And the wee thing is sabbing unco sair, / For their's nane nane kens the wee weariet wane, / Couren in frae the cold on the stair. Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut portrait of a young woman.
This rather saccharine ballad was intended to tug at the heartstrings of the broadside readership. Tales of woe involving neglected and abused children were common and probably sold well. In most cases the ballad ends with the death of the child and, as a result, an end to his or her suffering. The young girl in this ballad has been forced on to the streets to beg and steal by a man, who is very possibly her stepfather. Unable to do either, and unable to return home for fear of being beaten, the young girl eventually dies.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come all good People, give an Ear / unto these Lines I've penn'd: / It's of an ancient honest Man, / near Four Score Years and Ten.' A note following the title states that this couple 'were married in Edinburgh, on the 13th of June 1718; their Ages One Hundred and Sixty years', and that the ballad should be sung to the tune, 'The old Woman poor and blind'.
Set in Edinburgh, this romantic ballad describes a marriage between a bridegroom aged 88, and a bride aged 72. After light-heartedly describing the physical decay that accompanies ageing, and the lovers' philosophical and stoical reaction to it, the ballad proceeds to the wedding ceremony of the two elderly lovers. Held at a church in Nidderie's Wynd, the ballad-writer describes the reception as quite a feast and gathering of many people. The ballad concludes on a thoughtful note, by asking young people to be kind, and to wish the old lovers many days together in their new state of married bliss.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'THE beauty new of Edinburgh town, / She's Chang'd her Colour into Brown, / After it's so long Preservation, / She likes to pass out of this Nation . . . ' Below the title, it is recorded that this wedding song was to celebrate 'the marraige of John Brown, merchant in Holland, and Margaret Hepburn, daughter to the Laird of Bairfoot, solemnized 28 of July 1714'.
As suggested by the reference to Laird of Bairfoot (sic), this scurrilous ballad is not a proper wedding song at all, but is instead a savage criticism of a young bride who is leaving Edinburgh for Holland. Such is the contemptuous tone of the song, one would think it had been written by a rejected suitor. At a time (1714) when many colonial wars were being fought, it was customary in Britain to demonise foreign countries - regardless of the strong trade and cultural links that previously existed between Scotland and Holland. It was probably this feverish climate that inspired the writer to talk about Holland as a land where people with brown skins eat garlic, drink brandy 'And Eat their own Flesh when they Dine'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'What a great day of rejoycing was Monday, / Sic joys in our town was ne'er seen, / Ilk lord and lady were buskit, / An' shone like unto a new preen.' It is to be sung to the tune of 'Fie, let us a' to the Bridal' and was printed by Menzies of Bank Street, Edinburgh. A woodcut of a woman and man, apparently the worse for alcohol, adorns the top of the sheet. The subject matter dates the sheet to 1840.
This cheeky ballad celebrates Queen Victoria's (r. 1837-1901) wedding to Albert, whom the author derides as 'the German bit laird'. It seems, however, that the author wishes Victoria had married the Scot, Lord Elphinstone. Queen Victoria always loved Scotland and spent much of her time at Balmoral, which endeared her to her Scottish subjects, therefore to see a Scot as Prince Regent would have delighted them even more!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'A Protestant Priest, a Man of great Fame, / To be Rich and Great was his only Aim, / It was Dr Weasel, the very same, / Which no body can deny.'
This ballad is a satire about a churchman who is prepared to change his religious allegiance to earn fame and fortune and to curry favour with whichever monarch and party are in power. The poet depicts the priest wondering 'Whether Jimmy or William he ought to obey', 'Jimmy' being the Catholic James VII of Scotland and II of England, and 'William' being the Protestant William of Orange, who succeeded the deposed James in 1688. The 'Vicar of Bray', also mentioned, is the hero of a similar satirical poem from about 1734, and the reference dates this poem to after that.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'A happy bit hame this auld world would be, / If men when they're here, could mak' shift to agree'. This song should be sung to its original tune and was sold for a penny a sheet. It was published by the Poet's Box of 80 London Street, Glasgow.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'KEEN the frosty winds were blawing, / Deep the snaw had wreathed the ploughs, / Watty, waried a' day sawing, / Daunert down to Mungo Blue's.' Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut illustration of a man and woman.
This lengthy ballad follows the tale of Watty and Meg, a husband and wife. It opens with Watty complaining to his friend Mungo about his wife's 'confounded girning'. Mungo suggests that he should call her bluff and threaten to leave, thereby silencing her once and for all! Watty follows this advice and the ballad ends with Meg pleading with him to stay and pledging never to scold him again. Presented entirely from Watty's perspective, it says nothing of the trials of having a drunken husband.
The author of 'Watty and Meg' is said to be the celebrated American ornithologist, Alexander Wilson (1766-1813). Born in Paisley, Scotland, Wilson left school at an early age to train as a weaver. He soon abandoned his apprenticeship to take up work as a pedlar and, inspired by the likes of Robert Burns, began to write his own poetry. After years of roving the countryside as a pedlar and working to survive, Wilson finally emigrated to America in the early 1790s. 'Watty and Meg' was written in 1791 and is generally considered to be one of his best works.This ballad begins: 'KEEN the frosty winds were blawing, / Deep the snaw had wreathed the ploughs, / Watty, waried a' day sawing, / Daunert down to Mungo Blue's.' It was printed and sold by John Sanderson in Edinburgh.
This lengthy ballad follows the tale of Watty and Meg, a husband and wife. It opens with Watty complaining to his friend Mungo about his wife's 'confounded girning'. Mungo suggests that he should call her bluff and threaten to leave, thereby silencing her once and for all! Watty follows this advice and the ballad ends with Meg pleading with him to stay and pledging never to scold him again. Presented entirely from Watty's perspective, it says nothing of the trials of having a drunken husband.
The author of 'Watty and Meg' is said to be the celebrated American ornithologist, Alexander Wilson (1766-1813). Born in Paisley, Scotland, Wilson left school at an early age to train as a weaver. He soon abandoned his apprenticeship to take up work as a pedlar and, inspired by the likes of Robert Burns, began to write his own poetry. After years of roving the countryside as a pedlar and working to survive, Wilson finally emigrated to America in the early 1790s. 'Watty and Meg' was written in 1791 and is generally considered to be one of his best works.The first ballad begins: 'Jenny, my own true loved one, / I'm going far from thee'. 'The Song of the Emigrant' begins: 'I'm lying on a foreign shore, / An' hear the birdies sing'. The final ballad on this sheet, Norah Magee', begins: 'Norah, dear Norah, I can't live without you, / What made you leave me to cross the wide sea?' The sheet was published in Alexandria, outside Glasgow, by C.R. Gilchrist & Sons.
Publishing three ballads on one sheet would have made this broadside much more attractive to potential purchasers. They would see it as offering excellent value for money, since one, sometimes two, ballads per sheet was the norm. C.R. Gilchrist & Sons have also used the extra space at the bottom of the sheet to promote their other publications: 'The Beauties of Robert Burns', 'Songs of Bonnie Scotland' and 'Rale Songs of Ould Ireland'. These titles would have held a special appeal for Scots who had emigrated overseas.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The ballad begins: 'A wee bird cam to our ha' door, / It warbled sweet and clearly; / And aye the o'ercome o' its sang, / Was "Waes me for Prince Charlie"!' A note under the title states that the lyrics should be sung to the famous air, 'Bonny House o' Airley', which was a traditional Jacobite song. The word 'waes' means 'woes'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Illustrated with a woodcut of Jacobite soldiers, this ballad is dedicated to Charles Edward Stewart, 'Bonnie Prince Charlie' (1720-88), as he flees the redcoats following the Battle of Culloden. The writer imagines the indignities inflicted upon the would-be king, as he is forced to sleep among the heather of the Highlands, and contrasts his current abode with the palace in which he should be residing. The bird that appears in the ballad could be a symbol for Prince Charlie, since 'the king o'er the water' was often referred to as various types of bird by supportive writers and poets who wished to avoid being denounced as Jacobite sympathisers.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Valiant Jockie,s march'd away, / To fight a Battle with great Mackay; / Leaving me poor Soul alas! forlorne, / To curse the hour that ever I was born / But I swear I'll follow too, / And dearest Jockie's fate pursue; / Near him be, to guard his precious Life, / Never Scot had such a Loyal Wife.' It was to be sung 'to its own proper tune.'
'Valiant Jockie' is narrated by a woman whose husband has gone off to battle. She misses him so deeply that in verse one she resolves to disguise herself as a soldier and go to be with him as he fights. The remaining four verses develop the narrator's vision of her life as a soldier, and she describes herself as 'the nixt Dundee'. This is a reference to the Jacobite general John Graham of Claverhouse, Viscount Dundee, who died in 1689, and thus we can probably date the poem to some time after that.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The introduction to this poem reads: 'The following verses, by the author of "Half-past ten," were written for, and read with applause at, a Burns' Centenary Meeting, in Coatbridge, on the 25th January 1859:--' The poem itself begins: 'A hunder years this verra nicht, / Sin' Rabie Burns saw the licht'. Although no publication details are included, the sheet was almost certainly published in 1859.
This commemorative poem was written to celebrate the centenary of the birth of Scotland's national bard, Robert Burns (1759-96). The author was probably Catherine Bacon (nee Mackay) who was from Falkirk. She lived from about 1815-1898. These verses were apparently read out at a celebratory dinner in Coatbridge on the anniversary of Burns' birthday. This event is what a modern-day audience would describe as 'Burns' Night'. Such nights are characterised by storytelling, the eating of haggis, the drinking of whisky, and the 'Immortal Toast' to the poet. It is interesting to see that such events were taking place as early as 1859, since 'Burns' Night' is regarded as a worldwide tradition that dates from the late nineteenth century.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'VAliant Jockey's march'd away, / To fight the foe, with great Makcay, / Leaving me poor Soul, Alas! Forlorn, / To curse the hour I e'er was born:' A brief explanation under the title reads, 'Being a Valient Ladies Resolution to fight in Field ; by the side of Jockey her Entire Love; With his answer to it'. It was intended to be sung 'To an excellent New Tune'.
Whilst there are many ballads, from the female perspective, which lament the departure of a loved one into battle, this ballad is sung by a woman who is not content to remain at home but, instead, wishes to fight alongside her 'dearest Jockey'. Whilst Jockey, in his reply, commends her bravery and loyalty, he pleads with her to stay at home. The ballad is set during the Battle of Killiecrankie (1689), when Viscount Dundee - 'Bonnie Dundee' - led Jacobite forces against supporters of William of Orange led by General Sir Hugh Mackay.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'One night I went up in a  balloon, / On a voyage of discovery - to visit the moon, / Where an old man lives, so some people say - / "Through cutting of sticks on a Sunday".'
This whimsical and dream-like ballad waxes lyrically about a journey to visit the man in the moon, travelling there by hot air balloon. It is likely that this light-hearted ballad was written for a child, given the playful - yet educational - tone of the verses. After telling us about all the exciting things he saw during his fantastic journey, the writer breaks the magical spell by suddenly revealing that the whole episode was merely a dream. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ''Tis here and there, and every where, / We meet the lawyer clan, Johnnie'. The chorus reads: 'Up and waur them a', Johnnie, / Up and waur them a', / Up and save AULD REEKIE's pride, / And ding the man o' law!'
This political ballad clearly decries the corruption amongst the lawyers of Auld Reekie, and makes several references to the power they wield. Disillusionment with both the Whig and Tory parties is also highlighted, with a call instead to 'choose a man frae 'mang OUR AIN' as Edinburgh's parliamentary representative. This ballad is a parody of the traditional Jacobite song 'Up and Warn A', Wullie', which, according to Robert Burns, was the warning of a Highland clan to arms. It was referred to by Lowlanders as 'Up and Waur Them A', Willie', and this updated version could in a sense be viewed as a last-ditch political war cry!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A' ye wha hae riches an' plenty in store, / Do ye ne'er wance gi'e a bit thought on the poor? / While feestin' an' drinkin' does it enter yer brains / Ho' the poor devils live who are breakin' the stanes?' The ballad was written by John Wilson, B.S.G.
In economically depressed Victorian times, it was common for parish boards to give the poor and destitute employment breaking stones. This was gruelling and arduous labour. The stones were used to fill potholes in parish-maintained roads. This well-written song highlights how demeaning it is for a skilled man to have to resort to this back-breaking and seemingly trivial work.
It is not clear whether the lyricist, John Wilson, is the famous poet, reviewer and essayist of the same name, who usually wrote under the pseudonym 'Christopher North'. He lived between 1785 and 1854, slightly before the Victorian depression although stone breaking would also have been carried on, to a lesser extent, in his day.Verse 1: 'See yon braw bit laddie comin' rinnin' down the street, / Weel happit frae the caul' blast, an' a' sae clean an' neat: / His bonnet cocket on his head, his shoon sae tight an' clean - / There's an unco change com' o'er him now - the drunkard's raggit wean.' This song was written by John Barr of Glasgow. The sheet carries no publication details.
'The Unco Change' is a sequel to a ballad entitled 'The Drunkard's Raggit Wean', which painted a tragic picture of a child left threadbare, hungry and lonely by his drunken parents. 'The Drunkard's Raggit Wean' was reprinted many times and was also mentioned in other ballads, suggesting that it had had a powerful impact on its hearers. In 'The Unco Change', the author John Barr optimistically imagines the parents from the earlier poem joining the Temperance Movement, and giving their children the happy life they deserve.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'See yon braw bit laddie comin' rinnin' down the street, / Weel happit frae the caul' blast, an' a' sae clean an' neat: / His bonnet cocket on his head, his shoon sae tight an' clean'. This sheet was published by John Barr of Glasgow. 'Unco' is used in various ways by the Scots language but this context is conveys a sense of extreme and unfamiliar change.
John Barr worked in Glasgow as a lithographer, engraver and printer between 1841 and 1866. He moved premises five or six times in that period and twice worked with partners. Broadside production was best suited to unlicensed and uncommissioned printers as the constant turn-over in trade made up for the deficit in lucrative contracts. It is more unusual to find a printer, with such a range of skills and therefore presumably working further up the market, producing these ephemeral and cheap sheets.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Noo, I'm a simple country chiel, / And I'm just cam tae the toon; / Because I am a stranger here, / Folk tak, me for a lood. / The folk, they a' glower after me, / The wanes a' laugh their full, / And tae ane anither ye wid here then say, / Oh look at Uncle Wull'. The song was originally performed by W.H. Lanegan, but no date for its composition is given. The broadside was published by William Shepherd at the Poet?s Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee. It is notable for more spelling and typographical errors than usual.
This a comic ballad describing the eponymous Uncle Will's annual pilgrimage from the countryside into Glasgow, to buy toys for his nieces and nephews. Uncle Will, who narrates the ballad, is portayed very much as an innocent abroad, and between the verses of the ballad there are spoken interludes where he describes his various adventures and mishaps at the hands of the more streetwise inhabitants of Glasgow. This structure of alternating sung and spoken sections is quite common in broadside ballads, and emphasises the fact that these were very much pieces intended for public performance, on the street, in pubs or in music halls.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'I'm thinking of poor Uncle Tom, / So generous, kind, and brave; / The white man came when he was young, / And claim'd him as his slave.' A woodcut illustration has been included at the top of the sheet showing four scantily-clad figures in a clearing. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
This song is based on the character of Uncle Tom, taken from Harriet Beecher Stowe's famous and controverisal book, 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' (1852). Although Beecher Stowe has since been criticised for her patronising portrayal of black Americans, the publication of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' helped to advance the anti-slavery cause greatly. This particular broadside ends on a rousing note asking the question, 'Shall he who is but man himself, / Enslave his fellow man? / Then all united be, / To give to each other a brother's hand, / And set the black man free.'
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Trust to luck, trust to luck, and stare fate in the face, / Sure the heart must be easy if it's in the right place; / Let the world wag away, let your friends turn to foes, / Let your pockets run dry and threadbare your clothes.' This broadside was published on Saturday, 12th August 1871 and priced at one penny. The publisher was the Poet's Box. The city of publication has been obscured but can be made out as Glasgow.
'Trust to Luck' is a song designed to raise the morale of its audience, encouraging people to remain open, positive and to 'stare fate in the face'. The song has similar sentiments to songs that became popular during the First World War, such as 'Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit Bag' or 'It's a Long Way to Tipperary'. Like the latter song, 'Trust to Luck' probably originated in music halls, which were the most popular sources of entertainment in Britain in the late nineteenth century.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Shall Monarchy be quite forgot, / and of it no more heard? / Antiquity be razed out, / and Slav'ry put in Stead?' This was published by John Reid, of Pearson's Close Edinburgh, in 1718.
The first eight lines of this ballad also feature as a verse in the popular Scots song 'Auld Lang Syne'. There are many versions of 'Auld Lang Syne' and most poets during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries wrote their own version of it. The origin of the tune is also obscured by the oral culture in which it is embedded. As a result it is a little difficult to give this poem, with its negative extension on the loss of Scottish Independence, any concrete context.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Ye sons of Scotia, raise your voice, / And let the world hear; / We'll make the tyrants tremble, / For their day of judgment's near'. The woodcut above the title depicts a 'Punch and Judy' like figure.
The second ballad begins: 'Saw ye Johnnie comin, quo she, / Johnnie Russell comin ; / The Reform Bill in his hand, / And a' the Tories rinnin, quo she, / And a' the Tories rinnin?' The text preceding this reads: 'Dedicated to the Reform Committee of Dalkeith in honour of the triumph of Reform.' The woodcut at the top of the column seems to be of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden.
This two songs have the theme of reform in common which is often associated with the Whig Party. The official Reform Act was eventually passed in 1832 and it increased Britain's voters from 6% to 12% of the total population. Broadsides were often sold with two songs on the same sheet. This would have seemed like better value for money as the sheet would still have sold for a penny, increasing its potential market value and making it a more attractive purchase.This broadside begins: 'The public having, already, been put in possession, by the newspapers, of all the circumstances, yet known, connected with the unprecedentedly barbarous murder lately perpetrated in this parish, (Lochwinnoch)'. The ballad begins: 'From raven wings, the wint'ry night / Flap'd storms, which nature did affright'. It was to be sung to the tune 'This Night, the Heath shall be my bed'. It was printed by W. Taylor of Lochwinnoch and is dated the 3rd February, 1821.
Little is known about the publisher William Taylor, other than that he was a teacher as well as a printer and had premises at Calder Street, Lochwinnoch, between 1831 and 1834. It was typical of broadside producers to publish material that was of local interest for the local market. In this instance, Taylor has printed this rather touching tribute to a stranger who was brutally murdered in the parish of Lochwinnoch. It appears that the identity of the victim continued to remain a mystery after his death.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When silent time wi' lightly foot / Had trod on thirty years, / My native home I sought again, / Wi' mony hopes and fears. / Wha kens gin the dear friends I left / Will still continue mine? / Or gin I e'er again shall meet / The joys I left langsyne'. The sheet carries no publication details.
'Traveller's Return' is narrated by a traveller who revisits his home after an estrangement of thirty years, and finds that all but one of his former friends has died. Travel and separation were two of the most common themes in broadside ballads. Often travellers were portrayed as romantic figures, but frequently the adventure and excitement of travelling was balanced, as in this case, with the idea that there is no place like home. In other ballads, reflecting historical reality in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, men might be forced to travel or emigrate to find work, or to join the armed forces, leaving their young families behind.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'God, prosper our King, and the King's noble Sons ! / May their Praises resound from the Mouths of their Guns ! / Till Rebellion and all civil Discord may cease, / And these Realms be restor'd to a flourishing Peace.'
This cutting ballad was written sometime after the Battle of Culloden in 1746. It savagely criticises the Jacobites and their supporters, and praises King George II and his son, the Duke of Cumberland, for their efforts to restore 'a flourishing peace' between Scotland and England. The Swiss, French, Danish, German and early American revolutionary, James Oglethorpe are also lambasted for their rebelliousness. Because of the overall tone of the piece, and the fact that it refers to, 'the Scots . . . (For ever betraying, for ever betray'd)', it is likely that this was not composed by a Scot.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My beautiful! my beautiful! that standest meekly by, / With thy proudly arch'd and glossy neck, and dark and fiery eye'. This broadside was priced at one penny and published on Saturday, 5th June 1869. It was published by the Poet's Box, (probably Glasgow) but the town of publication has been obscured.
Although it is not attributed on the broadside, this poem was written by Caroline Norton (1808-77). Norton was the granddaughter of playwright Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1751-1816). Her first published poetry appeared in 1829 and as a result she became a successful magazine editor. She found further fame as a political poet and pamphleteer, but also a certain amount of notoriety when it was alleged that she had been having an affair with the Whig Home Secretary Lord Melbourne. The claims were made by Norton's husband, a Tory who was known to be violent toward her. Norton's unhappy marriage influenced her political activism, which contributed to the Marriage and Law Act of 1857.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'My name is Ted O'Mannon, I come from sweet Killarney O, / Sure I can whistle, I can sing, sure I can plough, and I can sow'. There is a woodcut of a traveller or rustic man carrying a tall stick above the song. Unusually two encore verses have been provided at the bottom of the sheet.There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
The song also goes by the titles 'The Lads who Live in Ireland' and 'Where the Apple Praties Grow', and sometimes the main character 'Ted' can be found as 'Ned'. This song was later claimed by James Seymour as his composition but this is difficult to verify. The word 'praties' is transliterated Irish  'pratai' or potato. Cooking apples and potatoes together and serving with pork seems to have been a beloved twist on today's apple sauce and pork.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Maxwelton braes are bonnie, / Where early fa's the dew, / 'Twas there that Annie Laurie, / Gie'd me her promise true.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and includes a woodcut illustration of a small house situated in a clearing. 'Annie Laurie' was a popular song, and James Lindsay is known to have published it on several different occasions.
Throughout the years there has been some doubt over the origins of this well-loved song. Whilst some believe it to be the work of William Douglas of Fingland, it has been suggested that it was written by Allen Cunningham. The well-known tune that is associated with the song was written in the nineteenth century by Lady John Scott (Alicia Ann Spottiswood) - who is also said to have adapted the words.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem crime account begins: 'YE Famales of high and low station, / I crave your attention a-while, / I was to leave the British nation, / And finish my days in exile.' There is no date attached to this sheet but mention of the 'Queen' suggests it was published during the reign of Queen Anne (1702-1714).
This broadside combines two of the most common broadside features: details of the crime and a poem about it. This combination of compelling entertainment would probably have been well-received by an audience lacking more technologically advanced inventions. As a result it was also an opportunity for the author to lecture the public on morals and the consequences of thoughtless actions.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Verse 1 begins: 'HE swears that he was cleck'd in Fife, / That he's lo'ed Scotland a' his life'. This song should be sung to the tune 'Wae Betide the Whig's o' Fife'. 'Cleck'd' in this instance means born and moulded. There are no further details attached to this song.
'The Whig's o' Fife' was and still is a fairly popular folksong, and the East Neuk of Fife had a reputation as a Whig stronghold. The 'Sir Thomas Dick Lauder' (1784-1848) referred to in the text was a famous author, publishing many books on the history of Scotland especially, and he was a renowned Whig politician. This particular sheet, however, seems to be a criticism of the disparity of being Scottish and a Scottish politician, but living and participating in London's political life. A further example of popular criticism of the Union of Parliaments.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'KEEN the frosty winds were blawin, / Deep the snaw had wreath'd the ploughs, / Watty, wearied a' day sawin, / Dannert down to Mungo Blue's.' The broadside also includes, at the foot of the sheet, 'OPINIONS OF THE PRESS'. There are no publication details supplied, but the dates of the newspapers quoted suggests that the sheet was published in late 1845 or 1846.
This broadside seems to have been intended, primarily, as an advertisement for a sculpture by a Mr Anderson of Perth. The sculpture was based on Alexander Wilson's (1766-1813) popular poem of 1792, 'Watty and Meg', which is reproduced in full on the page. The press reviews praise Anderson's sculpture highly, and describe it as a group of figures from the poem, carved from a single block of stone. It appears to have been exhibited in Dundee.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad is prefaced by a text which reads: 'CHRISTOPHER NORTH, the redoubtable editor of Blackwood, the only well-blown organ of aristocracy, has been parodying Lord Byron, of radical memory, to cut a squib on a certain R.H. Baron of Exchequer, and the Clerk of the Pipe, (a Scotch sinecure, gifted by a benevolent Tory to the man,) who has turned out the independent Member for Leith. MEN OF THE MEARNS! Would not the following do for Mr THOS. BURNETT, Reformer, heir apparent to a Baronetcy, your Candidate?' The sheet contains no publication details.
This ballad is a satire on Tom Burnett, a Whig parliamentary candidate for the Mearns, south of Aberdeen. The verse form and imagery are a parody of Lord Byron's poem 'The Destruction of Sennacherib'. The introduction reveals that the idea for the parody came from John Wilson or 'Christopher North', editor of Blackwood's Magazine, who had composed a similar parody satirising a political candidate for Leith. It is a fitting coincidence that Byron was a native of Aberdeenshire.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.'Allen and Sally' begins: ''Twas in the evening of a wintry day, / Then just returning from a long campaign'. 'Banks of Clyde' begins: 'When I was young and youth did bloom, / Where fancy led me I did rove'. The sheet was published by John Harkness of Church Street, Preston.
The two ballads on this broadside are quite different in tone. 'Allen and Sally' is a song about a wife failing to recognise her husband on his return from battle because he has been so altered by his experiences. 'Banks of Clyde' appears at first to be a romantic song, but in fact culminates in a very cruel, darkly humorous manner, with the narrator seducing the girl he has enchanted and then abandoning her with false promises of future meetings.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Oh, had I but Aladdin's Lamp, / If only for a day, / I'd try to find a link to bind / The joys that pass away. / I'd try to bring an angel's wing / Upon this earth again, / And build true worth home on earth, / A home beloved by men.' A note below the title states that 'This deservedly popular song created a great sensation in this city some months ago, when intsoduced to the Glasgow public by that admirable singer, Mr Plumpton'. The sheet was published on the Saturday morning of January 26th, 1856, and was available for purchase from the Poet's Box.
The writer of this whimsically altruistic ballad muses on what he would do to improve the world, if he had his own Aladdin's Lamp. The legend of Aladdin's Lamp is one of the most famous stories from the Tales of the Arabian Nights. In the original story, the lamp is rubbed and a genie suddenly emerges from the lamp to grant the lamp's owner three magic wishes. As the writer's stated objective is to end poverty through creating a utopia and brotherhood of man, it could be argued that this ballad is quite political in subject matter.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I come from Alabama, / My name is Samuel, / The white folks call me Sam, / And that suits me quite as well. / 'Most everything I spy / Though I look so jolly green, / To take me in is all my eye, / For you'll find I'm "all serene."' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and could be bought for one penny. It was published on 16th April 1870 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
This narrator of this song is supposed to be an African-American slave who has come to England to make his fortune. Slave-ownership in Britain was legally abolished in 1772, ninety-three years before it was ended in the United States, although British involvement in the Atlantic slave trade continued until 1807. The impression given here of Britain treating all races equally probably bore little resemblance to the real experiences of black people in Britain in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Suspicion and prejudice born of ignorance were still common in a Great Britain with far less ethnic variation than today, although many Britons had been active in campaigning against slavery.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHEN shameful vice presum'd our streets to tread, / And boist'rous Riot rear'd her lawless head, / When the Lord's sacred Sabbath was profan'd, / And fair EDINA'S character was stain'd.' Although the name of the publisher is not included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published in Edinburgh in December, 1758.
Written in a highly erudite and lofty style, this ballad celebrates the achievements of the late Robert Montgomery, who was Lord Provost of Edinburgh during the mid-eighteenth century. In this eulogy, the writer depicts Montgomery as a virtual saviour, who turned Edinburgh from a den of godless wickedness into the modern 'Athens of the North' - which is Edinburgh's nickname. It was certainly during this mid-century period that architects such as John Adams, designed and built many of Edinburgh's finest buildings. After singing his praises, the writer concludes by saying that all the citizens of Edinburgh send out their love to the recently departed Lord Provost.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Afloat on the ocean, my days gaily fly; / No monarch on earth is more happy than I; / Like a bright, brilliant star my trim bark seems to me, / As sparkling in glory, she skims o'er the sea. / The wave is my kingdom, all bend to my will, / And fate seems ambitious my hopes to fulfil.' This broadside was priced at one penny and was published on Saturday, 19th September 1857 by the Poet's Box. The town of publication has been obscured, but was probably Glasgow.
Ballads about or narrated by travellers, sailors and soldiers were very commonplace on broadsides. Their popularity probably stemmed from the romantic connotations of exploration and seeing new worlds, especially in circumstances where there was an element of danger. In the nineteenth century, when this broadside was published, the opportunities for people to travel were far fewer, and much more difficult, than today.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I'm verry absent minded of course it's want of thought, / But somewhat I can always do things wrong, / I make such sad mistake's that my heart it nearly brakes, / And I don't think that I'll live so verry long.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can be had at the Poet's Box, Overgate Dundee. / New Songs out every Week.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'Ye Whigs of high and low degree, / Come pipe all hands on deck d'ye see, / And teach all the crew to sing out for me, / 'Huzzah for Aber-crombie!' A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the tune, 'the Arethusa', which is a traditional Scottish song dating from around 1730, and also the name of a poem by the radical poet, Percy Bysshe Shelley. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Jamie Aytoun suggests that it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Illustrated with a woodcut of a gentleman riding his horse, this ballad champions the political aims of Lord James Abercrombie (1776-1858). MP for Edinburgh from 1832-9, Lord Abercrombie was also the Speaker of the House of Commons from 1835-9. Judging by what the author says of Abercrombie, he would have been a member of the Whig Party, who were in power at this time. Apparently, there was a fear that Jamie Aytoun's candidature would split the Whig vote, hence the writer's mild criticism of Aytoun (1797-1881) and the Reformers. Lord Abercrombie was created Baron Dunfermline in 1839.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I feel so dreadful nervous, / That I'm frightened of my life, / For by this time tomorrow, / I'll be fastened to a wife. / An agricultural Irish girl, / That's twice the size of me, / Upon my word I'm doubtful / What the consequence will be.' This ballad was 'Sung with great success by Walter Munro', printed by William Shepherd, at the Poet?s Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee.
The battle of the sexes was a common theme in broadside ballads. In this example, as in many others, the ballad is designed to elict sympathy for the rather pathetic male narrator, and the descriptions of the 'fine big woman' of the title are quite misogynistic. However, women historically had a more active role in writing and performing ballads than in most other areas of composition, and this is reflected in the fact that there is quite a number of ballads in the National Library of Scotland's collection that describe a woman's situation from a woman's perspective, and in some cases challenge society's paternalistic morality.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Come all you people far an near, / And listen to my ditty'. The second ballad begins: 'Come all you married women whoever that you be, / Likewise all you that's single and listen unto me'. The third ballad begins: 'Is this the old mill stream, that ten years ago, / Was so fast in its currant, so pure in its flow?' The fourth ballad begins: 'Keen blaws [t]he wind o'e[r th]e braes o' Gleniffer, / The auld castle's turrets are covered wi' snaw'.
The four songs printed on this broadside are quite different in theme. 'Female Rambling Sailor' takes up an idea that features in other broadside ballads, the vow of a woman to join the armed forces after her lover has been lost in action. 'Dandy Husband' is a comic poem narrated by a woman verbally attacking her husband. 'Old Mill Stream' laments the decay of favorite childhood place, whilst 'Braes o' Gleniffer' is a well known song by the accomplished Paisley poet Robert Tannahill (1774-1810).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I went by Lord Ely's gates, / I heard a fair maid singing, / With a bonny baby in her arms, / And all the bells in the court were ringing.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Set outside Lord Ely's Gates at Rathfarnham Castle, near Dublin, this darkly humorous ballad tells the story of a travelling man who receives help from a friendly landlady, in order to escape a gang of armed men. The man had earlier met a pretty maid who works as a nurse for Lord Ely, and the pair had arranged a rendezvous at a nearby tavern, so that the man could somehow provide the young woman with a sight of her true love, Johnny. Upon looking out the tavern window, however, he sees a gang of armed men heading towards him instead of his true love. A rather difficult to understand ballad, it could be that the writer is referring to a famous murder that occurred in this very spot in 1841.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ' They sailed away in a gallant barque, / Bob Neil and Jess M'Bride, / They ventured all on the bounding oak, / That danced (dances) on the silvery tide . . . ' A note below the title states that this ballad was sung to the tune of 'John Grumlie'. Another note, this time located at the bottom of the sheet, states it was published on the Saturday morning of 11th July 1857.
This ballad is quite unusual, in that it contains detailed information regarding how the song should be sung. Indeed, the introduction of 'Ladies and Gentlemen', combined with the preferred musical key advice for the accompanying pianist, is the type of light-hearted banter that one would expect of a music hall performance. The ballad itself tells of a terrible storm that sank a ship upon leaving Bublin Bay - 'Bublin' probably being a pun on 'bubbling', as the location is Dublin Bay. Lyrical in its use of poetic language, the ballad was written during the turbulent era when many Scottish and Irish people were leaving their old homes and emigrating to locations such as the 'New World'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'As I was walking to take the air, / To see the ships all sailing O, / The sailors all invited me on board, / And the captain likewise to his cabin O.' There are no publication details given on this broadside.
This ballad is narrated by Betsy, one of the Duke of Gordon's servants, who is seduced by a sea captain. When she falls pregnant, her fellow staff, and even the Duchess of Gordon herself, suspect that the Duke is the father, until Betsy admits who the father is. Many ballads written were condemning illegitimate pregnancy, but others took a more lenient view and recognised that love and desire were not necessarily impure feelings outside marriage. 'Captain Glen' is in the latter category, but the ballad ends respectably with the captain returning to marry his Betsy.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Russians are coming, oh, dear! oh, dear! / Well, let them come on, we have nothing to fear; / The war now declared - you can now volunteer - / There's nought like the Militia, that is very clear...' It was to be sung to the old Scottish air 'The Campbells are Coming', was published on 13th January 1855, by the Poet's Box, Glasgow, and was priced at one penny.
This ballad was clearly intended for performance, as the text beneath the title confirms: 'This fine song is sung, with the most unbounded applause, by that comical of all comic singers, Mr Charles Watson, in the Shskspeare Saloon, Glasgow. The rapturous encores, with which he is nightly greeted show how much he is loved by those who appreciate the Muse, and admire original talent of a high character. Now that the Lancashire Militia has arrived in Glasgow, on the 11th instant, the Poet expects a great run to the box for this funny song'. The song was probably written in response to Britain entering the Crimean war in 1854.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'When Charlie first came frae the North, / With the manly looks of a Highland laddie'.
The second ballad begins: 'A beautiful damsel of fame and renown, / A gentleman's daughter near Monaghan town'. This sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow, and carries two illustrative woodcut.
The first song exhibits strong Jacobite leanings as tartan was illegal in Scotland until the visit of George IV in 1822 and any mention of Prince Charles Edward Stuart was treason after 1746. The second song was popular on broadsides and similarities can be found in 'The Young Sailor Lad' and 'If I was a Blackbird'. It could be that these songs were published together to make them more appealing to the Catholic or Irish sections of the local population.Verse 1 begins: 'It's from the harvest I took my way, / After four weeks of hard shearing'. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs printed by James Lindsay on this sheet. The lyrics are set in Glasgow's Briggate area.
There are many poems contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection which address the topic of country lads being duped by loose con women. This does seem to have been a concern amongst eighteenth- and nineteenth-century societies. There are other broadsides held, which describe the colourful Briggate in more detail. Undressed, gossiping, tipsy women seem to feature quite heavily.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'By Grampians' towering mountains high, / Whose rocky summits skirt the sky; / Wild rolls the queen of Scotia's floods, / Adorned by Athole's ancient woods. / Along their winding walks in spring, / How sweet to hear the wild birds sing; / At peep of dawn, how sweet to stray, / Adown the bonnie Banks of Tay.' This particular three-verse song was 'Written and composed by ROBERT CARMICHAEL, Lundin Mill, near Largo, Fifeshire.'
A note under the title informs the reader that the verses were intended to be sung to the air, 'Roslin Castle'. With no accompanying music, the tune was most probably well-known amongst the readership. This particular song deals with pastoral themes that would have particularly appealed to a growing urban population. With the advent of the Industrial Revolution many people were forced to leave behind their rural existence and forge a new life in the rapidly expanding towns. Although rural life was far from idyllic, many new urbanites harked back to a romanticised version of the 'old life'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'THe bonny Gray-ey'd Morn began for to peep / when Jockie rouz'd with Love came blithly on; / And I who wishing lay depriv'd of Sleep, / abhor'd the lazy hours that flow did run.' It was to be sung 'To an excellent new Tune'.
Broadsides, particularly those describing criminal cases, were often written to reinforce the stern presbyterian morality that prevailed in Scottish society between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries. This ballad is unusual in that it does quite the reverse. It is narrated by a woman who allows her sweetheart to make love to her although they are not married. Instead of expressing regret, or being punished, she argues that the experience has strengthened their love and asks 'where's the Hurt of this?'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As I went a walking one morning in May, / Down by yon green meadows I carelessly did stray'. There is a woodcut included above the song which features a happy young couple, quite sprucely dressed, talking together. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
'The Braes of Strathblane' is a song which is firmly based in the oral tradition. As a result it is difficult to pinpoint its origins and author. It is, however, one of many folksongs which feature the braes of a village and young love. This song, indeed, an identical match to the lyrics of 'The Braes of Strathdon', which lies in Aberdeenshire. On other broadsides the suggested to tune to these lyrics is often 'As I stood at my cottage door'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'BRITANNIA still triumphs, still Queen of the Main, / In defiance of Holland, of France, and of Spain'. The text preceding text reads: 'A SONG OCCASIONED BY ADMIRAL DUNCAN'S VICTORY OVER THE DUTCH. / Tune, "In the Garb of Old Gaul", &c'.
Admiral Viscount Adam Duncan (1731-1804), born in Dundee, was eventually created Baron Duncan of Lundie to celebrate his efforts. Duncan was in charge of the British blockade of the North Sea, in 1797, when he met the Dutch fleet, off the village of Kampen, with eighteen ships. Eleven of the Dutch ships, all under the Command of Admiral de Winter, were taken. The struggle became known as the Battle of Camperdown and it relieved the threat of invasion.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'The Old Year's pass'd and gone the bright New Year has come' / And it may each of us find it bright in every home.' The text preceding it reads: 'Written Compose and Sung with great Success by HARRY WALL. Comic Comidean Vocalist. / This Song must not be sung by Professional's without permission of the Aurthor.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee.
It is most unusual for a Poet's Box publication to have an author attached. These publications were quick and cheap and as a result mainly anonymous. Although the name Harry Wall is given there is very little known about Wall or his entertainment business. It is unusual also to find a copyright statement of sorts on a broadside. Copyright issues were not fully addressed until well into the twentieth century.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The ballad begins: 'M'Intosh is a Soldier brave, / and of his friends he took his leave, / Unto Northumberland he drew.' The text preceding this ballad reads: 'To an excellent new TUNE'.
William Mackintosh was born in 1658 the son of William Mackintosh and Mary Baillie of Dunain. The family home was based in the estates at Borlum, Inverness-shire - 'of Borlum' eventually becoming the family suffix. William married Mary Reade of whom little is known and they had two sons, Benjamin and Lachlan. The Mackintoshes were declared Jacobite supporters. William and his cousin Lachlan led 800 of their clansmen at the battle of Preston (1715), where they were routed. Many men were taken and transported to America, but William managed to escape to France in 1716. Although he died there in 1743, his children remained in Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'M'Intosh is a Soldier brave, / and of his Friends he took his leave'. The text preceding this ballad reads: 'To an excellent new Tune.' A poor quality woodcut of a charging highlander has been included at the top of the page.
Brigadier William Mackintosh was a Jacobite rebel who, together with his cousin Lachlan, led 800 clansmen at the disastrous Battle of Preston in November 1715. Many of those captured were transported to America, but William managed to escape to France in 1716. There are other copies of this poem held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, suggesting that this pro-Jacobite song was popular.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Good people all of Glasgow, pray listen unto me, / Whilst I relate this woeful tale and mournful tragedy; / 'Tis of a fair and handsome girl, in Bridgeton she did dwell, / She was her parents sole delight, her comrades loved her well.' It was advertised as a new song and includes a woodcut illustration of a small leprechaun-like figure reading a book.
This moralising ballad recounts the tragic tale of a young woman called Jane, who meets and falls in love with a wealthy man who promises to marry her. Upon this pledge, she becomes his lover and soon becomes pregnant. Only when he callously disowns her and the unborn child, does she discover his true nature. Unable to cope, Jane tragically takes her own life. The theme of misguided love that ultimately ends in tragedy is a familiar one in broadside ballads, and many examples can be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'An Excellent New BALLAD Concerning a Bridegroom and his Bride, who were lately married at Borrowstounness, giving a full and true Account of their Behaviour, and of the Bridegroom's running away from the Bride the same Night, without bedding with her. The ballad is sung to the tune of 'Sheriff-Moor' and begins: 'NOW if you'l but stay, I'll tell you the Way, / It's how the Bridgeroom ran awa-- Man'.
The ballad follows the tale of a bridegroom who abandons his bride on their wedding night. Believing himself to have been duped into marrying a penniless bride, he refuses to consummate the marriage and leaves her. This was particularly important since an annulment could be obtained if the marriage was unconsummated. This fast-paced romp appears on another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, decorated with two woodcut illustrations.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You may claver of England, her powers and her might, / Her calmness in peace and her fierceness in fight, / Yet our braw 93rd some notice demand / Her chiel's frae the Highlands aye prove Scotland can'. To 'claver' means 'to gossip', and 'chiel' is Scots for a 'young man'. The sheet was published in Dundee by the Poet's Box. It cost a penny.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
The 93rd Sutherland Highlanders were raised in 1799, and existed for almost 100 years until 1881 when they were amalgamated with the 91st. Always the most Highland of regiments, they were even put into companies with men from their home parish. The ballad mentions Sir Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde (1792-1863) and the regiment's successes at Alma (September 1854) and Lucknow (November 1857).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The ballad begins: 'Busk ye, busk ye, my bonnie, bonnie bride! / Busk ye, busk ye, my winsome marrow! / Busk ye, busk ye, my bonnie, bonnie bride, / And think nae mair of the braes of Yarrow.' A note below the title states that this ballad was to be sung to an original tune. Sold for a penny, a further note below the title states that 'Copies can always be had in the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow'. Strangely, however, to the left of this scored-out Glasgow address, the address of the Poet's Box in Dundee has been stamped on the sheet. A footnote affirms that the sheet was published on Saturday the 2nd of July, 1870.
This well-known ballad goes under a number of alternative titles and variants, while the story at the heart of the song has been investigated and written about by James Hogg and Sir Walter Scott. In short, the ballad tells the tragic tale of some brothers who, disapproving of their sister's fiance, murder the unfortunate suitor. The sister dreams that she and her lover are together in Yarrow (near Selkirk), picking green heather. This dream is supposed to symbolise the death of her lover. Sir Walter Scott's theory that the ballad is based on a duel between John Scott of Tushielaw and his brother-in-law, Walter Scott of Thirlestane, is the interpretation favoured by the collector and publisher of ballads, Francis J. Child.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WILL ye gang wi' me Lassie, / To the braes of Birnibouzle / Baith the earth and sea Lassie / Will I rob to feed thee / I'll hunt the otter and the brook'. It was published by J. Pitts of Great St Andrew Street, London, and includes a woodcut illustration of a well-dressed man standing next to a window.
The inclusion of a woodcut illustration on this sheet would probably have helped to boost sales. Although the price of a broadside was usually no more than one penny, the broadside-buying public were more inclined to buy a sheet that featured a picture, believing it to be better value. The publishers were fully aware of this and maintained an often limited stock of woodcuts that could be used across a range of different sheets. People appeared unconcerned if the illustration provided bore little or no relation to the topic.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'The Braes o' Gleniffer' begins: 'KEEN blaws the wind, / O'er the braes O' Gleniffer'. 'Henry and Nancy' begins: 'As I walked out one morning in the spring time of the year, / I overheard a sailor bold, likewise a lady fair'. The sheet was published by Harkness of Church Street in Preston. The author of 'The Braes o' Gleniffer' is given as Tannahill.
'The Braes o' Gleniffer' is the best known song written by the weaver and poet Robert Tannahill (1774-1810). It was inspired by Gleniffer Braes in Renfrewshire, overlooking Tannahill's home town of Paisley. 'Henry and Nancy' is a song about a young man exchanging farewells with his sweetheart before he joins the navy. Songs that involved two lovers forced apart by financial circumstances or by military duty were among the most common types of ballad featured on broadsides.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Let us go, lassie, go / To the braes o' Balquhither, / Where the blae-berries grow, / 'Mang the bonny Highland heather'. The top of the sheet carries a woodcut of a bird singing in a branch. In the background are two cottages, in a stylised rural setting.
Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive today because they were recorded on broadsides or in collections. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually well-known, established favourites. This song with its rural imagery and reminiscences of a fondly remembered place, is typical of many broadside ballads. Unfortunately nothing more is known about the origins or growth of this ballad.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The ballad begins: 'It is down in yon meadow, and there I did see. / A bonnie wee lassie that dazzled my Eee'. The woodcut at the top of this sheet is unusually detailed and expressive for broadside publications. A uniformed man is kneeling at the feet of a well-dressed and veiled woman, both characters appear to be in emotional turmoil.
The Highland lad of the song pleads with this beautiful lass to uproot and go north. He offers to marry her, keep her safe and happy, and give her a good place in society - unusually honest and open sentiments expressed, by a man, in a broadside publication. Although at first hesitant, mainly because of the heartbreak her parents would feel, she eventually agrees. This sheet offers a brief insight into the Scottish migration around the country and the reasons for it.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Cheer up, cheer up, my mother dear, / O, why do you sit and weep? / Do you think that He who guides me here / Forsakes me on the deep? / Let hope and faith illume glance / That sees the bark set sail; / Look, look at her now and see her dance. / O, why do you turn so pale? / 'Tis an English ship and an English crew, / So mother be proud of your boy in blue.'
This song a version of 'The song of the sailor boy' written by Eliza Cook (1818-1889) is narrated by a young sailor reassuring his mother, whom he imagines is at home weeping over him. Ballads about servicemen and travellers were popular. The elements of danger and of seeing new world evoked by such songs probably held romantic appeal for many people. The line ''Tis an English ship and an English crew' suggests that the song originated in England, but the illustration, showing Glasgow's coat-of-arms, indicates that this broadside version may have been printed in Glagsow.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Cheer up, cheer up, my mother dear, / O why do you sit and weep? / Do you think that He who guards me here / Forsakes me on the deep?' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
This ballad is written from the viewpoint of a conscientious Scottish sailor far from home, who wants to reassure his angst-ridden mother not to worry about him. Indeed, the ballad mentions that it is unlikely that God, who looks after him so successfully on land, should forsake her son when he is aboard a ship. Accompanying the text, is a woodcut of a sailor dancing what looks like the Highland fling. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political ballad begins: 'Bottom he cam' here to woo, / Ha, ha, the wooing o't; / Wi' him cam' the auld Whig crew, / Ha, ha, the wooing o't'. A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the air, 'Duncan Gray'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the political context referred to suggests that it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
This irreverent broadside almost certainly relates to a political contest that took place in Edinburgh during the 1830s - hence the writer's frequent references to political 'wooing'. Unfortunately, however, the people mentioned in this ballad are not particularly well known figures, so it is difficult to place the broadside in its exact historical context. It is possible, however, that the Whig politician called 'Bottom' is a contemptuous allusion to the famous Edinburgh lawyer, writer and publisher, Henry Brougham (1778-1868). The National Library of Scotland's collection contains numerous political broadsides that report on elections in Edinburgh during the 1830s and 1840s.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Thou bonny wood o' Craigielee, / Thou bonny wood o' Craigielee'. A woodcut showing three men searching in a tree has been included at the top of the sheet.
The second ballad begins: 'Row well, my boatie, row weel, / Row weel my merry men a'!' A woodcut of two well wrapped up men in a boat, at what appears to be night, has been included above the title.
Both poems refer to rural and traditional vocations but this appears to be their only connection. This, however, would probably have mattered little to the target market. The idea would have been that two songs on a sheet, for the same cost, was better value for money. This no doubt, coupled with two illustrations,  would have been this sheet's strongest marketing feature.Verse 1 begins: 'I have heard the mavis singing / Its love song to the morn'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow. Included above the title is a clear and detailed image of country girl crossing a stream.
James Lindsay is known to have worked out of 11 King Street between 1860 and 1890, although he operated a printers shop in Glasgow from the 1840s through to 1908. By including a woodcut on the sheet, Lindsay probably hoped to increase its perceived value. Woodcuts, by this later time, were more sophisticated with clear and more lifelike detail. They were, however, still used generically and it would not be surprising to find this illustration on another unrelated sheet. This song was written by two Englishmen probably around 1850. 'Bonny Mary' was Robert Burns's 'Highland Mary' (Mary Campbell, 1763-1786), who died tragically young. It is thought that Burns had asked her to go to Jamaica with him, but she died before the voyage.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I went out to my cot, at the close of the day, / About the beginning of June, / By a jessamine shade, I spy'd a fair maid, / And she sadly complain'd to the moon.' It was printed by T. Birt of Great St Andrew Street, London, and includes an advertisement.
Whilst this song relies heavily on the familiar and highly formulaic theme of tragic love found in so many traditional ballads, it does possess a poignancy that others often do not. The narrator upon retiring to bed one night overhears a young woman confiding her woes to the moon. Her grief and hopelessness are very real and combine with the poetic imagery to make this rather unassuming ballad quite memorable.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I have heard the mavis singing, / Its love song to the morn, / I have seen the dew-drop clinging / To the rose just newly born'. The sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow. A woodcut of a woman walking along a country lane carrying a basket in each arm and a birdcage on her head, decorates the top of the sheet.
This traditional love song is typical of the type of material published as broadsides. James Lindsay was a prolific publisher and the number 40 at the bottom of the sheet suggests that this was part of a collectable sequence - a shrewd marketing move. Not wanting to waste any space on the sheet, at the bottom Lindsay also advertises the services his business provides, which are 'every description of Letterpress Printing . . . Lithography, Bookbinding &c.  &c.'
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I came in by Tiviot side / and by the braes of Branksome, / There met I with a pretty Lass, / that was both neat and handsome: / If that her mother say me nay / then with the Daughter will I play, / Whether that she will or nay / have at the bonny Lassie.'
'Branksome' is a reference to Branxholme in Roxburghshire, the ancestral home of the Scotts of Buccleuch, 3 miles south of Hawick. 'Branksome' was also used as a literary motif during the early 1700s. The title of this song features in Allan Ramsay's (1686-1757) pastoral play 'The Gentle Shepherd' (1725) and the song was published in 1733 in William Thomson's 'Orpheus Caledonia'. It is an interesting reflection of eighteenth century attitudes to love and courtship. The song was traditionally said to have been written by 'Auld Hobbie o' Skelfhill'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Whom to shall I make my Adress? / or whom to shall I mak my Moan? / the bonny Lad that I Lov'd best, / an other is come and tane him me from.' The text preceding it reads: 'An Excellent New Song / INTITULED / A Bonny LAD of High Renown / To its own proper Tune.'
The two woodcuts on this page would have made the sheet more attractive to purchasers, especially as the sheet was bought for group perusal and not everyone would have been literate. Woodcuts are visual rhetoric and use instantly recognisable symbols. Here the man and woman suggest it is a love or courtship song. The girl is standing in an apron amongst foliage implying perhaps a rural setting. The gentleman wears a splendid frock and wig representing his social standing and wealth. These themes are all then reflected in the verses.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'ON Atrick side in Yarrow, / a place pleasant and fair, / I thought on bonny Helen'. The text preceding this ballad reads: 'A New Song. / To the Tune of the  Yellow Haird Ladie.'
The phrase 'A New Song' was included to try and make this ballad seem like a more attractive purchase. This is also true of woodcuts included along the top of the plain page. Woodcuts were expensive to produce and so they were often reused on a number of sheets. Broadsides were sold in vast numbers by pedlars on the street and as a result competition was fierce.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'My Bonny Jean long have I been, / a seeking thee from Morn to Ev'n, / Thy boony [sic] Face so full of Grace, / thy like is not in Aberdeen.' It was advertised as an excellent new song and probably sold for one penny. Unfortunately, no publication details have been included on this sheet.
Although ballads were firmly rooted in the oral tradition and, in many cases, were already well-known amongst the populace, their publication on broadsides proved very lucrative for producers. As there was no copyright fee to pay or permission to obtain, broadside publishers were free to produce any number of ballads at will. With only the cost of the paper and ink to consider they were often viewed as a money-spinner!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I who was once a day Courted by many, / Now am most scornfully Slighted by thee; / Others some reason had, thou ner'e had any, / Returning with Disdain my Court[e]sie: Slave to Affection and thy sweet Complection, / Thus far have I been but no longer shall be; / A rash Election, goes not by Direction, / Of the weak Feminine Amorous we.'
The title of this ballad is intriguing. It is the same, although differently spelled, as one of the most famous of all Scots ballads, 'Bonnie Dundee'. The contents of the two ballads could not be more different, however. 'Bonny Dundee' appears to be a dialogue between two lovers who have become temporarily estranged, whilst 'Bonnie Dundee' is a celebration of the Jacobite general John Graham of Claverhouse (1648-1689). It may be that 'Bonny Dundee' was so named because it is intended to be sung to the same melody as its more famous counterpart.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Down by yon River side, / where early falls the Dew, / Betwixt my Love and I, / there were kind Kisses anew.'
This song belongs to Scotland's oral folk-tradition and as such very little is known about its origins. Collecting folk songs during the 1780s, Burns recorded in personal notes, that the first two lines of the song were fragmentary and the rest was written by James Tytler. He is known to have been a printer and involved in piece-work for the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica'. There is a tune with the same title, first recorded in the Leyden Manuscript of 1692.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now I've been looking up and doun / For months, I'm sure, about this toun, / A thrifty wife my joys to croon - / But I'll no say I'll take ony ane. / O' a' the places I ha'e seen / In different places I ha'e been, / Nae damsel pleases my twa een / Like a strapping Aberdonian.' This song was supplied by the Poet's Box. The town or city is not specified, but it was probably published in Dundee.
This comic ballad is narrated by a man whose greatest ambition in life is to marry an Aberdonian. The narrator seems proud of his careful, conservative outlook, criticising those who drink beer and claiming that his greatest joys are 'a bonny young lass and a gude cup o' tea'. Although the place of publication is not identified on this broadside, it seem likely that it did originate in north-east Scotland. The expression 'loonie', meaning 'boy' or 'man' and the pronounciation 'dee' for English 'do', are both markers of north-eastern Scots.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The broom, the brier, the birken bush, / Bloom bonnie o'er thy flowery lea, / And a' the sweets that ane can wish, / Frae nature's hand are strew'd on thee.' The number 20 has been attributed to this song suggesting it was one of a series.
A woodcut has been included at the top of the page. Woodcuts were expensive to create and so were often made on a generic topic so that they could be reused. Here a pastoral landscape has been included adding to the attractiveness of the sheet. In a largely illiterate age, illustrations were used as visual rhetoric so those who were being read to could also enjoy the sheet and equate the words with the graphics.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As I walked out one midsummer's morning, / To view the fields and take the air'.
This song, believed to be a traditional English folksong, can also often be found under the title 'The Sweet Primroses' or 'The Sweet Primeroses'. It was a popular tune amongst broadside publishers, possibly because its neutral content had a wide appeal. It eventually became very popular in America and has since been included in many American collections of family song books.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad 'The Banks of Sweet Dundee' begins: 'It's of a farmer's daughter, / So beautiful I'm told, / Her parents died and left her, / Five hundred pounds in gold'. This is one of the most widespread and famous folksongs and is known throughout Britain and North America.
The second ballad begins: 'E'er the tea party it had begun, / I eat an onion---only one, / Folks held their noses seemed ill at ease, / Stirred to and fro, made remarks like these'. A decorative design separates the two sides of the sheet. Unfortunately, no publication details have been given.
'Banks of Sweet Dundee' was a very popular song in the mid to late nineteenth century, and also goes by the title 'Undaunted Mary'. Different versions of the song were published in chapbooks and broadsides. The second song is a comical piece about the social embarrassment caused by having breath that smells of onions.This ballad begins: 'The gloomy night is gath'ring fast, / Loud roars the wild inconstant blast! / Yon mirky cloud is full with rain, / I see it driving o'er the plain. . . '
Judging by the woodcut of a rural worker that accompanies this broadside ballad, these verses might well be referring to the dying of the light for 'the Heaven-taught ploughman', Robert Burns. Certainly, the dark references to the 'gloomy night' and symbolic seasonal change from autumn to winter, hint at impending death. In addition to the Ayrshire setting, this ballad also appears in the middle of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to the immortal memory of Robert Burns. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'Banks of Doon' begins: 'Ye banks and braes o' bonnie Doon, / How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair! / How can ye chnat, ye little birds, / And I saw weary, fu' o' care! / Thou'lt break my heart, thou warbling bird / That wantons through the flow'ring thorn: / Thou minds me o' departed joys - Departed never to return!' The words were written by Robert Burns.
'The Fairest Flower' begins: 'The rose, diffusing sweet perfume, / Blooms bonny on its thorny tree; / The linnet sits amang the broom, / And charms us with its melody. / But ne'er was flower in field or bower, / Nor warbler on the greenwood tree, / That bloomed so bonnie in their hour, / Or sang more sweetly, love, than thee.' The words were written by P. McNeill, and the song was to be sung to the tune 'The Bonnie Woods of Craigielea'.
The publisher of this broadside possibly chose to group these two songs together because he saw the influence of one upon the other. 'Banks of Doon', first published in the 'Scots Musical Museum' in 1792 is one of Burns's most famous and popular songs. 'The Fairest Flower' takes as its central image the rose 'on its thorny tree' that also appears in Burns's song, However, in McNeill's version, the rose is a symbol of love and hope, whereas in Burns's bittersweet words the rose comes to represent betrayal.Verse 1: 'All nature now rejoicing is / From moorland knowe to main / The time of singing birds hath come / Sweet flowerets bloom again. / But yesterday mine eye was bright, / Oh, but my heart was fain, / For by me beamed the kindly smile / Of my beloved ane.' This version of the 'Banks O' Tyne' was written by P. McNeill and probably sold at the Poet's Box, Dundee for one penny.
Although this broadside does not include a date, it was most likely published in the late nineteenth century. A first version of this song was published in 'The battle of Preston, Gaffer Gray or Knox and his times and other poems and songs' written by P. M'Neill of Tranent. This was probably Peter McNeill (1839-1929) who wrote a number of works on the East Lothian area. The River Tyne in question relates to the river which flows through Haddington and enters the sea at Dunbar.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Pox fa that pultron povertie, / Wa worth the time that I him saw; / Since first he laid his fang on me, / My self from him I dought ne're draw: / His wink to me has been a law, / He hunts me like a penny Dog, / Of him I stand far greater aw, / Than puppil does of Pedagogue.' This poem is attributed to 'his Royal Highness J.D.A.' and was to be sung 'to the tune of 'The Last Good-night'.
In 'The Banishment of Povertie' the narrator describes, in vigorous Scots, his odyssey through Scotland as he attempts to escape the clutches of poverty. It is significant that his journey starts in Kilbarchan: this is a tribute to 'The life and death of Habbie Simpson, Piper in Kilbarchan', one of the most popular and reprinted of all Scots ballads, which was written by Robert Sempill of Beltrees (1595?-1665?). 'The Banishment of Povertie' is believed to have been written by Robert's son, Francis Sempill (1616-1682), despite the attribution on the broadside. It is written in 'French octave', where the end-rhyme scheme is ABABBCBC, and the metre is iambic tetrameter.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There's a dashing sort of boy, who is called his mothes joy, / For his rucetion and elements they charm me; / He takes the chief command in a water-drinking land, / Called the Ballyhooly Blue ribbon Army.' It was published at 192 Overgate Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box.
'Ballyhooly' is a song narrated by a member of an organistion called the Ballyhooly Blue Ribbon, which seems to be a temperance movement. Such movements grew popular in Britain, Ireland and the United States during the nineteenth century. The author of this song seems to be implying, however, that once out of the sight of the commander, the members of the Blue Ribbon enjoy a sly drink. Ballyhooly is a village in County Cork, and the song does seem to be named after a real organisation. It is also referred to in James Joyce's novel 'Ulysses'. The song was probably composed by Robert Martin, also known as 'Ballyhooly Bob' who wrote a number of burlesque tunes for the London theatre in the 1880s and 1890s. He owned a large estate in Co. Galway and was the elder brother of Violet Martin more famous as ?Martin Ross? of the literary cousins ?Somerville & Ross?, who wrote 'Memories of an Irish R.M.' and other stories.  
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'To the Bailies in council 'twas Mitchell who cried / It's as clear as the sun that the Provost has lied, / And his presence with us, all true men will agree, / Is a blot on the honour of Bonnie Dundee.' The ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'The Bonnets o' Bonnie Dundee'. The broadside was published in Dundee in November 1904. It carries the name 'Alvan Marlaw', but it is unclear whether this is the name of the author or of the publisher.
This broadside is a pastiche of the song 'Bonny Dundee' by Sir Water Scott (1771-1832). Whereas Scott's song is a romantic celebration of the Jacobite general John Graham of Claverhouse, this poem is an attack on corruption in Dundee's burgh council. In particular, the provost, or head of the council, is lampooned for being a tax-dodger, and a bully to the ordinary working man. In the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, broadside ballads increasingly served as expressions of radical and working class disenchantment with the social order.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Not a sob was heard, not a sorrowful moan, / As his corse to 'the coffin' we hurried'. There are two separate sets of notes: the first on the text itself and the second on the first note.
This broadside admirably illustrates the process by which many of these examples survive today. There is no contextual information given in the original publication, but someone has purposely collected the sheet and commented on the content. These comments are useful as they explain many of the now outdated references on the sheet.
The sheet has then fallen into the hands of a second person who, again, has chosen to collect and write notes on the page - this time about the first collector. It is unusual to find such a potted, if still quite limited, history of a broadside's life.This ballad begins: 'Come all Reformers of the Town, / Since Jeffrey now has got the Gown, / And pitch your voice to the highest tone, / To sing huzza for Aytoun.' It was advertised as a new song and was to be sung to the tune of 'Arethusa'. A coat of arms with the motto, 'without fear and without reproach', adorns the top of the sheet.
The 'Aytoun' of the title was most likely Kirkcaldy-born manufacturer and Chartist, James Aytoun (1797-1881). In the mid-nineteenth century, Aytoun, a prominent Radical, stood for election as member of parliament for Edinburgh. The author of this piece is urging people to vote for him in the upcoming elections. 'Jeffrey' probably refers to the Whig politician Francis Jeffrey, (1733-1850) who was first elected as MP for Edinburgh in 1832. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes a large number of ballads outlining the tensions between the Tories, Whigs and Radicals in mid-nineteenth-century Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'AS DRYEN justly termed poetic sound, / A pacing Pegasus on Carpet Ground, / ROSECOMMON'S nervous Sence your Verses yield, / A Courser bounding o'er the furrow'd field'.
Highlighting the bagpipes as an instrument of torture, John Couper's erudite and light-hearted ballad controversially claims that English culture and poesy is far superior to anything that the Scots can produce. Comparing John Dryden to Allan Ramsay, Couper, who studied poetry at Oxford, states that Scottish poets and musicians can only produce cacophonous sounds that torture the listener's poor ears. Feelings were running very high on both sides of the border after the Union of 1707, particularly following the nearly successful Jacobite Rebellion of 1715, and the ballad should properly be viewed in this context.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ho! ho, Mr Aytoun, so now it turns out, / You're only a Tory who's turned his coat; / Since a Yeoman at Airdrie no Whig you'ld endure, / And Radicals slaughter'd at sad Bonnymuir.' A note below the title states that this song should be sung to the tune, 'Mr Orator Puff'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet, though it was probably published in the 1830s.
With its references to Whigs and Tories, it is clear that this is a political ballad. Irreverent and satirical in tone, the writer spotlights the hypocritical and corrupt nature of James Aytoun, (1797-1881) whom it accuses of masquerading as a Whig. In targeting Lord Castlereagh and the yeomanry for their collusion, the author is perhaps alluding to the slaughters of protesting Radicals at Peterloo (1819) and Bonnymuir (1820). James Aytoun was a prominent Radical politician in Edinburgh in the 1830s.
The National Library of Scotland holds another ballad relating to this incident,  entitled 'Mr Aytoun's Campaign Against the Airdrie Radicals'.This political ballad begins: 'The Whigs think they are grand and great, / But O! they're proud and idly gaudy, / How much unlike the mainly gait / Of Aytoun our dear Union Laddie!' A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the air, 'The New Highland Laddie'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the reference to Jamie Aytoun suggests that it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Illustrated with a woodcut of a noble-looking and windswept Highlander, this political broadside celebrates the political virtues of James Aytoun (1797-1881). A member of the Radical Party, Aytoun unsuccessfully stood for election in Edinburgh during the 1830s and early 1840s.
In his criticism of the Whig Party, the author reveals much about the re-drawing of political boundaries that took place during this turbulent period. For although the 1830s are considered an age when reform took place, many people felt that the reforms did not go far enough and that the Whigs were virtually the same as the Tories. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains many broadsides that report on Aytoun's attempts to be elected as MP for Edinburgh.This ballad begins: 'A reverend esteemed divine, / Upon a Sabbath day short syne, / While studious, a drawer unlockit, / To get a napkin for his pocket.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this Recitation can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter Street, Dundee', and that the sheet cost one penny. Unfortunately, the sheet is not dated.
This light-hearted ballad pokes fun at a minister who mistakes a sleeve of an old shirt for a napkin or fancy handkerchief. The ballad then moves into the setting of the pulpit, where the minister gives a fire and brimstone sermon to his congregation. However, the power of his sermon is rather diminished by the sight of him using a ragged sleeve of a shirt instead of a handkerchief when mopping his brow and blowing his nose. The end result is a build-up of suppressed laughter among the congregation until they can contain themselves no longer and the church erupts in mirth. The fact that a Church Minister could be ridiculed in print, tells us much about the changing social climate in Scotland at this time.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Weel dae I remember when I was but a bairn, / The lickings that I used to get when I did ony hairm; / For mother she was very strict, though loving, kind and good, / She made me aye behave mysel', as a guid bairnies should. . . ' Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee'. A 'tawse' was a leather strap that was used to punish badly behaved children.
This light-hearted ballad is written from the perspective of a nostalgic adult, fondly remembering the times when his mother used to physically chastise him for his errant behaviour. When a person was raised in this manner, it was said that they were 'brought up by hand'. The character considers the various methods and instruments of punishment that his mother used on him, and concludes that the 'Auld Pair o' Tawse' was the reprimand that made him feel 'glad'. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The text preceding the ballad begins: 'This very comical song was written and sung by J. Kearney, in the character of 'Owney,' at the Castle Tavern, Dublin'. It was to be sung to the air, 'The Rakes o' Mallow'. The first verse begins: 'All you that are here attend, I pray, / And you shall hear, without delay, / About a party great and gay, / The type of all decorum'. Published in June 1851, this sheet could be purchased from the Poet's Box at No 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow.
This broadside includes a rather interesting and witty introduction written by the publisher, the Poet's Box, along with a novel advertisement publicising their work. This light-heartedness is very much in keeping with the playful mood of the song itself. 
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'In the Bridgegate lived one Barney M'Dade, / Arrah cushla Biddy won?t you take me now?' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. The woodcut illustration at the top is a detailed and revealing town scene which focuses on two women chatting in the foreground.
Woodcut illustrations were often included not only to enhance the perceived value of the sheet but also the text, especially for less literate readers. Here, this busy town scene relates to the conversation and its context in the lyrics. Ballads, by this time printed on broadsides, were still part of the oral tradition, with many of them still being read aloud and memorised. The repetitive aspects of these lyrics all aided this process.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Loud the cries are ringin', ringin, / Cheery ringing' up and down, / Short but sweet the sang that's singin, / Blythely through Auld Reekie's Toon.'
Bringing together the individual cries of market traders selling their wares, this broadside ballad gives the reader - and listener - a vivid aural impression of what the streets of Edinburgh must have sounded like between 150-200 years ago. The list of country produce, fish and drinks that were available in the marketplace of 'Auld Reekie', also tells us much about the various foodstuffs that people could buy. Many interesting broadside ballads such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Attend, you gallant Britons bold, unto these lines I will unfold / The deeds of valiant heroes I am going to relate'. This sheet was printed by James Kay of Glasgow and carries a woodcut illustration of a stylised 'Napoleon' - a figure wearing a bi-corn hat, sitting on rearing horse.
James Kay worked in Glasgow as printer during the mid-1840s. Anglo-French relations during this period were remarkably strained. There had been a relatively successfully alliance between the governments during the 1830s. This was mainly to insure that both powers maintained a strong presence in the Iberian Peninsula.
France, her economy and her army, were however, recovering after their depression and had carried out a number of successful political coups during the early 1840s. Lord Palmerston had returned to office as British foreign secretary and was renowned for his suspicion of the French. This sheet my be a popular, restless reflection of the larger political picture.Verse 1 begins: 'I've been to the east, I've been to the west, / I've been to Indianna'. There is a woodcut illustration above the title, which depicts a black woman holding a basket in front of a landscape with palm trees. This sheet was published by James Li[n]dsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
James Lindsay is known to have operated a printing business in Glasgow between 1847 and 1909. He worked out of 9 King Street, however, from 1852 until 1859. This broadside has an advert for over 5000 sheets of broadside stock, and he was also a prolific chapbook producer. Lindsay is also known to have been a stationer and private commissions printer.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This broadside contains two separate ballads. The first ballad begins: 'Upon a fair morning for soft recreation, / I heard a fair lady was making her moan, / With sighing and sobbing and sad lamentation, / Saying, my blackbird most royal is flown.'
The opening verse of the second ballad reads: 'My name's Duncan Campbell, from the shire of Argyle, / I have travelled this country for many a long mile; / I have travelled through England, and Ireland, and a', / And the name I go by is bold Erin-go-bragh.' This sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow, whose business was located at 179 Argyll Street in 1844.
Employing imagery from nature in a romantic manner, the narrator of the first ballad appears to tell the sad tale of a young lady's missing blackbird, and his epic search for the exiled bird in Spain and France. This lament is an allegorical ballad in support of the exiled Jacobites, however, since the blackbird is a symbol for Charles Edward Stuart (1720-88). The second ballad tells of a Campbell from Argyllshire who, during a visit to Edinburgh, ends up assaulting a policeman who tries to arrest him on suspicion of being Irish. Immigrants from Ireland were mostly Catholic and poor, and suffered years of discrimination from the Scottish Establishment, which was staunchly anti-Catholic.Verse 1 begins: 'I will tell you a trick, that was played the other night, / Tis concerning a Doctor that dwells in this town.' There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
It is not clear in this song whether the 'black cook' refers to the cook's skin colour or his professional grade. Chefs were awarded a black band to wear around the bottom of their hat if they attained excellence and this sort of staff accolade may have been sought after by the gentry. Black household staff, on the other hand, are a literary motif which were used to best effect during the nineteenth century, where they often held white households together.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'There are won'erfu news hae come doun to the town, / The Bill's got a desperate crunt on the crown, / The bishops hae gien't sic a terrible whack, / That the maist o folk think they hae broken its back'. It is to be sung to the air 'The Laird o' Cockpen'. A woodblock of the Royal Coat of Arms adorns the top of the sheet. The sheet was published by G. Caldwell, of Paisley.
This broadside would have been highly topical when it was published, probably around 1832 when the debate over Earl Grey's (1764-1845) Reform Bill was at its peak. The Reform Act was passed in 1832 and its aim was to make constituencies more representative. The author of this piece says he is a Reformer, but from the tone it is safe to assume that he does not think the Reform Bill goes far enough. To the ordinary person it would not have make a blind bit of difference as eligibility was property-based.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'It was on the ninth of November, / Eighteen hundred and forty-one, / Our beautiful Queen you'll remember, / Did behold her first-born son. / All the young ladies of honour, / As they did approach near her bed, / Did praise the great Bountiful Donor, / That rais'd up a Prince called Ned.'
'The Birth of Young Ned' is a song ostensibly celebrating the birth of Queen Victoria's first son, the future King Edward VII (1841-1910). In the final three verses, however, the words become critical of the public cost of the new prince's upkeep. The song's concerns about the morality of tax-payers financing the prince's lifestyle were quite prophetic: denied any public role by his mother, the adult Prince Edward became notorious for an extravagant lifestyle of gambling, drinking, fine eating and womanising.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A soldier of the Legion lay dying in Algiers, / There was lack of woman's nursing, there was dearth of woman's tears; / But a comrade stood beside him, while his life-blood ebbed away, / And bent, with pitying glances, to hear what he might say'. The publisher was the Poet's Box, (probably Glasgow) but the town of publication has been obscured. The broadside was published on Saturday, 27th July 1867, priced at one penny.
'Bingen on the Rhine' is narrated by a German soldier who has been mortally wounded on the battlefield at Algiers. Although the ballad is written almost entirely in standard English, the use of the word 'aye' for 'always' in the second line of the third verse suggests that the song probably originated in Scotland rather than England or Germany. Deathbed ballads, last words and elegies were all very popular among the broadside-buying public.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Bonnie lassie will ye go, / Will ye go, will ye go, / Bonnie lassie will ye go, / To the birks of Aberfeldy.' Although his name does not appear on the sheet, this ballad was written by Robert Burns.
Robert Burns wrote this ballad in late August 1787, during a visit to the Birks of Aberfeldy, then known as the Den of Moness. Legend has it that Burns wrote the song after resting in a natural seat on the rock, just at the side of the Birks. This natural seat is well-known and a plaque now exists at the exact spot where Burns was inspired to write the ballad. The accompanying woodcut to this broadside ballad shows a pastoral scene of young women playing, and the song's verses celebrate the reborn joys of nature in Spring and female beauty.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Bird of the wilderness, / Blithesome and cumberless, / Sweet is thy matin o'er moorland and lea! / Emblem of happiness, / Blest is thy dwelling-place, / Oh, to abide in the desert with thee.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this extremely popular song can only be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the ballad should be sing to an original tune. The sheet was published on the Saturday morning of August 18th, 1868.
This ballad celebrates the joys of the skylark - a bird that has come to symbolise freedom, ardour, joy, youth and happiness. In addition to symbolising these concepts, the skylark is also a symbol of the praying Christ, as he rises into heaven after blessing his disciples. The religious language and imagery employed in this ballad suggests that, on this occasion, the skylark is being used for its religious associations. A note below the title advertises the many services that the Poet's Box can offer its customers, while a list at the bottom of the sheet catalogues other ballads that are available for purchase.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Oh, white folks, listen unto me, / Oh, Billy Pattison, / The subject of my story I'll tell unto thee, / Don't tell me, don't tell me / The name of my story I'll tell unto thee, / Is oh, Billy Pattison, / The name of my song I'll tell unto thee, / Don't tell me, don't tell me.' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, and was priced at one penny. It was published on Saturday, 10th January 1863, by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
This song has its roots in the slave trade between Africa and North America. Some of the songs sung by the African-American slaves were recorded and standardised by white collectors in much the same way Scottish ballads had been collected. Ironically, within a few years these songs were being performed as 'negro spirituals' by white entertainers to white audiences worldwide. 'Billy Pattison' may be an adaptation of such a song. Although containing the call-and-response structure that characterised many 'spirituals', it is about the murder of a white man by an African-American, and contains anti-black sentiments.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'O cam' ye down frae London, man, / Or cam' ye here yestreen? / Then sit down in the muckle chair, / And tell us what ye?ve seen.'
This ballad is dedicated to the passing of the Great Reform Act of 1832. At the time this momentous act was passed, Earl Charles Grey (1764-1845) was the Prime Minister, and also leader of the Whig party. The Scotsman, Joseph Hume (1777-1855), was a Radical who, from 1830 onwards, was regarded as the leader of the movement for universal suffrage. Although the 1832 Reform Act extended the franchise to numerous middle-class men, many Radicals (Hume included) considered it to be a weak piece of legislation, since it did not grant the franchise to the working classes.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'WHen I was young, as you are now, / I could have done, as ye can do: / I could have carri'd as high a Brow, / As any other young Man, I trow. / So bide you yet, so bide you yet, / So bide till yon be marri'd yet, / The Half of that will serve you yet, / If once that you were marri'd yet.' The ballad was to be sung 'To its own proper Tune'.
Most of this ballad is narrated by an old man warning a young man about the perils of marriage. The narrator's most urgent concern is the amount of hard-earned money wives and children demand. The last part of the ballad is, however, given over to 'The Maid's Reply', where a woman speaker mocks the original narrator for being a liar and 'void of sence', and claims that because he witholds money from his wife, she must 'gain her living at some Game'. The 'game' in question is left to the imagination.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Near a tree by the margin of a woodland, / Whose green and leafy boughs sweep the ground / With a path leading to it o'er the prairie, / when silence hung her night garb around.' It was to be sung to its original tune. The broadside was priced at one penny and was published by the Poet's Box on Saturday, 7th October 1865. The town of publication has been obscured, but was probably Glasgow.
Various words in 'Belle Brandon' betray the fact that it is a song of American origin. There are references to the 'prairie' and to the arbour, both words that are far less common in Britain than in the United States, and there is also a reference to the 'red man', or Native American. The existence of broadsides like this is an example of how popular culture slowly became more cosmopolitan and broader in its worldview, as improved travel and postal services opened other countries up to Britain.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'There was an old man cam' o'er the lea, / Wi' mony a fine story unto me'. The second ballad begins: 'A butcher lad there lived in Crieff, / A bonnie lassie came for to buy some beef'. The third ballad begins: 'Autumn comes with heather bells, / And bonnie o'er thon mountain dells'.
This particular sheet was published by the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee, and probably sold for one penny. The three ballads featured all deal with the subject of love. Although 'The Beggar Man' and 'The Bonnie Lassie's Plaidie' could easily have ended in tragedy, as many traditional ballads do, they both in fact end on a very happy note. Along with 'The Band o' Shearers', which is light-hearted in tone, this broadside would have offered people a pleasant alternative to the grim crime reports that were also in circulation at this time.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Be mine, dear maid, this faithful heart, / Can never prove untrue'. The second ballad begins: 'There's ne'er a nook in a' the land / That William rules sae well'. The third ballad begins: 'It was upon a Lammas night, / When corn rigs are bonny'. The fourth ballad begins: 'Ye banks, and braes, and streams around, / The Castle o' Montgomery'.
The four songs on this broadside were probably widely popular at the time of publication. 'Highland Mary', Robert Burns's tribute to his lover Mary Campbell who died aged only twenty-three, is still very well known today. Likewise 'Amang the Rigs o' Barley' is a Burns lyric that is still widely recited today, and was included in the cult British film 'The Wicker Man'. 'Dumbarton's Bonnie Dell' is not well known today but was apparently written in the nineteenth century by someone named Meineke and dedicated to a Mrs Robert A. Taylor. 'Ye banks and braes' is also a well-known Robert Burns composition.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This sheet begins with a piece of self promotion: 'This flying scheet can only be had from the Poet, out of his Box, 130 Gallowgate Street, Glasgow. It is one of the finest songs of the day.' The ballad begins: 'Oh, wha hasna heard tell o' blyth Bauldie Buchanan'. and the song is to be sung to the tune 'Knowledge is Power'. It was printed in Glasgow on Saturday, 15th March 1851.
This broadside was published by Matthew Leitch, who is possibly also its author. Leitch wrote much of his own material, as well as commissioning other 'poets'. His printing firm operated out of 130 Gallowgate between 1849 and May 1851. A very prolific printer, Leitch was known for using local subjects for inspiration. 'Bauldy Buchanan' is probably a real person, a much-loved local character according to this account.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'On the 21st of October in Trafalgar bay we lay, / The combined fleets of France and Spain a leaving off we lay, / We cleared away for action like Britons stout and bold, / Resolving if we came up with them we would not be controlled.' There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
The Battle of Trafalgar (1805) was famously won by the British fleet under the command of Admiral Horatio Nelson. Fought on the seas near Cape Trafalgar, off the coast of south-west Spain, the British successfully defeated the allied French and Spanish forces. The victory at Trafalgar, although marred by the death of Nelson from a gunshot wound, prevented Napoleon from invading Britain and ensured British naval supremacy throughout the nineteenth century.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Says Mrs. Doyle to Mrs. Grant, / You'd better clean the stairs! / Ye've missed yer turn for mony a week, / The neighbours a' did theirs!' This sheet was published by James Kay in Glasgow and could have been purchased for a penny.
Tenements were brokered as the solution to overcrowded housing in heavily industrialised areas such as Glasgow, during the early-nineteenth century. Tenements consisted of a square block of flats built facing the front street, but enclosing a shared green at the back. The communal staircase for each side of the building was often a source of tension, as its cleanliness was a source of pride for the the block but required co-operation to maintain. This tension is explored and revealed in detail in this text.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'This battle was fought not long ago, / Being in the kitchen there below - / To tell you the truth how came the fray, / The broom stood in the dishcloth's way.' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and could be bought for one penny. It was published by the Poet's Box in Glasgow, from a manuscript 'kindly handed to the Poet by Mr Thomas Gallacher'. The 'Poet', in this context, was the proprietor of the Poet's Box.
This bizarre comic ballad brings the contents of a kitchen to life and describes them engaging in a fierce battle. The song's ironic punchline is that the broom and the dishcloth, which began the fight, have to clean up the kitchen the following morning. This subject matter certainly does not follow any established ballad conventions, and it is likely the song was written to entertain children. Structurally it is simple, written in four-line verses mainly composed of two pairs of rhyming couplets.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The introduction to the ballad begins: 'The Battle of Inkermann, fought and conquered by the Allied Troops--British, French, Sardinians and Turks, on the 5th November 1854, will ever stand on the memory of the present generation'. The ballad's first line runs: 'Sebastapol lay shrouded in thick November's gloom'. The sheet was printed almost three years after the battle, by the Poet's Box of Glasgow, and cost one penny.
The Crimean War (1853-6) was between Russia and an alliance of Great Britain, France, Sardinia, and the Ottoman (Turkish) Empire. The Battle of Inkermann, or Inkerman as it is sometimes spelt, was one of the decisive events in the war. The French and British defeated the Russians at Inkermann, near Sevastopol. Over 15,000 men lost their lives, 12,000 of them Russians. The much lampooned Scottish poet William McGonagall composed a piece of the same title.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'High glory to the old Black Watch, & dauntless Seventy-One / And glory to the Ninety-Two, who have such laurels won. / And honour to the illustrious few who bravely led them on, / To the deathless & the bloodless field of the battle of Balfron.' A note above the ballad states that it should be sung to the air of 'Guy Fawkes'. In addition to mentioning the composer of this song, the introductory text also mentions that 'Copies can only be had in the Poet's Box, 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow'.
Written in the style of a mock-epic, this light-hearted ballad tells the story of a 'battle' that took place in Balfron between Irish navvies and Highlanders on one side, and various Scottish regiments on the other side. These navvies were working on the Glasgow Water Works, which is a pipeline that carries water from Loch Katrine to Glasgow, via Balfron. It appears that the townspeople of Balfron were worried about being overrun by these navvies with their 'foreign' ways and 'alien' language - hence the telegraph to Stirling Castle. Although the troops in Stirling quickly responded to the telegraph and soon arrived in Balfron by train, happily, their services were not needed as the navvies had left the town.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'You loyal Britons [pr]ay draw near, / Unto the news I've brought you here / With joy each British heart does cheer / For the victory gained at Alma'. A patriotic royal coat of arms has been included at the top of the page in the middle of the title.
The Battle of Alma, fought on the 20th September 1854, the first of the Crimean War, was an outstanding Franco-British victory. General St Arnaud for the French and Lord Raglan for the English defeated General Menchikov's Russian troops, who lost about 6,000 men that day. This victory created an opening which allowed the French and British forces to advance to Sebastopol and their next engagement.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.The opening line of this ballad runs: 'I'm waiting in the airey, cookey darling'. It was published on Saturday, 15th April 1854, by the Poet's Box of 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow, and cost a penny.
As well as the ballad, the sheet also includes an introduction about how 'peelers' are taking food from people's larders and blaming it on cats. 'Peelers' are policemen, the name is derived from the name of their founder, Robert Peel. At the bottom of the sheet is a flamboyant and eloquent advertisement written by the 'poet', who is probably the Poet's Box manager, Matthew Leitch. Apparently 'no sooner is a new song issued, than his Royal Yankee Press is at once put into requisition to supply the lieges with copies'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'I am a Coogate porter, / And I work baith hard and sair'. The second ballad begins: 'They played in their beautiful garden, / The children of high degree'.The third ballad begins: 'Kind, kind, and gentle is she, / Kind is my Mary'. The fourth ballad begins: 'It was on a summer's morning all in the month of May, / Down by yon flowery garden where Betsy did stray'.
This broadside was published by Lowden McCartney at the Poet's Box, 180 Overgate, Dundee. The songs featured are fairly typical of the standard stock-in-trade offered by broadside producers at this time - most likely the nineteenth century. Whilst many of the ballads published were well-established favourites that have continued to stand the test of time, a large number were the highly formulaic popular songs of their day and, as such, were disposable but enjoyable entertainment. According to an entry in 'The Girl's Own Paper' in 1884, 'The Children's home' was written by F. E. Weatherly, and arranged as a vocal duet by Alfred J. Caldicott from the favourite song by F. H. Cowen.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'You married people high and low, come listen to my song, / I'll show to you economy and not detain you long, / In this town lived a tradesman, who wished to see all things right, / And to accoant 'a t Monday morn he called his loving wife.' This ballad was published by Muir, but the city and date of publication are not cited.
Many broadside ballads were concerned with the social roles men and women were expected to play. In ballads dealing with courtship, women were usually cast as the guardians of moral propriety while men were shown as hopelessly in thrall to their impulses. Ballads dealing with husbands and wives sometimes portrayed marriage as a battleground or a contest of wits, but this example reaffirms patriarchal roles where the man is the breadwinner and the woman manages the household. It is likely that this ballad originated in the Victorian period (1837-1901) where songs and poems celebrating and reinforcing women's domestic responsibilities were common.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'ON July just upon the penult day, / which is the second Moneth next to May. / It is agreed and finally Contracted, / and all the Parties living yet that spake it, / Between two Graceless Persons of Renoune, / None more Infamous dwelling in the Town.'
The 'Contract of Enster' is a comic rendering of a marriage contract into rhyming Scots couplets. (Enster is an old spelling for Anstruther in Fife).The cause given for the marriage between the 'Raggit Sutor Man' and the 'good Daughter of old Andrew Bizie' is that 'they have no will to work' and that if they marry, they will be entitled to an inheritance from old Andrew. The author sustains the 'marriage contract' illusion to the extent of including a list of 'witnesses' at the end of the poem.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I travelled the whole way from Dounoughadee, / The flourishing city of Glasgow to see ; / When I came there the first meat I saw, / Was boil'd roasted herring at the Broomielaw.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
This ballad gives a very real impression of the 'Conoughtman's' wanderings through Glasgow. The majority of readers were probably familiar with the city, and would have found it easy to imagine the man from the west of Ireland making his way from the Exchange to George Square and on to the Green and the mills of Bridgeton. His strange encounters with various unusual characters along the way give this account a rather dream-like quality.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'From Munster I came and I went into Leinster, / I met with a maid and they called her a spinster'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. There is a woodcut above the title which depicts three deer crossing a rocky, tree-lined stream.
James Lindsay was a prolific broadside and chapbook producer who operated in Glasgow between 1847 and 1909. He worked from King Street, however, between 1852 and 1859. It was during the early part of the nineteenth century that Irish immigrants began to arrive in Glasgow, seeking work and better living conditions. It could be that this sheet was published to appeal to this section of the market.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Gentlemen Visitors, how do you do? / Pop into my comic museum, / Of things rare and curious, I've got not a few / Come in and you shall quickly see 'em.' A note below the woodcut illustration states that the first ballad should be sung to the tune, 'Let the Toast Pass'.
The second ballad begins: 'A chieftain to the Highlands bound, / Cried boatman do not tarry, / And I'll give thee a silver pound / To row us o'er the ferry.' This ballad was written by Thomas Campbell (1777-1844). Underneath the title of the first ballad, a note states that the sheet was published by 'Mitchelson, Printer, three doors down from Session House Clerkenwell Green'. Although no date of publication is included, the references to the politician (1778-1868) Lord Brougham suggest it was most likely printed during the 1830s.
The chapmen would have sold this broadside as a special bargain, since it contains two ballads for the price of one. The first ballad is written from the viewpoint of a man who owns a museum full of curios. In this strange ballad, the museum owner describes some of the amazing exhibits that are displayed in his museum, such as a bull rowing a boat and a minister spinning a top. In the second ballad, meanwhile, Campbell describes an elopement that took place in the Highlands. The ballad is fast-paced and full of exciting twists and turns, as it portrays the two lovers escaping from their pursuers.The first ballad begins: 'COME Sweet Lass, / it?s bonny Weather lets together / Come sweet Lass, / let's trip it on the Grass: / Every where, / poor Jockie seeks his Dear, / Unless that she appear, / he sees no Beauty there.' The text preceding it reads: 'OR Loves invitation / To a new Tune.'
The second ballad begins: 'THe Damask Rose or Lilly fair, / the Couslip and the Pansie, / With my true Love cannot compare, / for beauty nor for fancy.' The text preceding it reads: 'A young Mans Resolution to prove constant to his Sweet heart. / To the Tune of, Omnia vincit Amor.'
Very little information was recorded about either of these songs. The second tune occasionally goes by the title of 'The Damask Rose'. This sheet would have been an especially attractive purchase because it would have cost the same as a standard broadside, but there would have been two songs on it. It is also designed to be cut in half, if desired, and so was a more flexible purchase.This ballad begins: 'Come sit thee down, my bonny bonny love, / Come sit thee down by me, love, / And I will tell thee many a tale of the dangers of the sea. / Of the perils of the deep, love'. Published in 1855 by the Poet's Box of Glasgow, this ballad is to be sung to the tune of 'Something or Nothing' and cost a penny.
Although the lettering has been partly erased, it is still possible to read that the sheet was published in Glasgow by the Poet's Box. It is most likely that the 'poet' is therefore Matthew Leitch, its proprietor at the time, who was known for composing many of his own publications. With this knowledge, the introduction, where 'the poet' says that the language is 'grand---nay, even sublime', seem rather boastful!
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 and chorus: 'In Dublin's fair city lived a maiden so pritty, / Her name it was Molly Malone, / And though streets broad and narrow she wheeled her wheelbarrow, / Crying Cockles and mussels! alive, alive, O / Alive, alive O! alive, alive, O! / Crying Cockles and! alive, alive, O!' This ballad was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee.
This is a version of a song that is still widely known today. The chorus is taken from the street cry of Dublin fishmongers from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The character of Molly Malone has now entered Dublin folklore, but it is not known whether she really existed and if she did, whether she was actually a fishmonger or rather, as some have speculated, a part-time prostitute. Although known worldwide, the song has become Dublin's anthem and is mentioned in James Joyce's novel of the city, 'Ulysses'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I've been to a party, I've been to a ball, / I've been where there's you can see; / I've been where there's swells, and such pretty girls, / And I've had a jolly good spree. / I've just staggered home, but I've lost my key, / My wife she won't open the door, / I've knocked and I've bawled, at the window threw stones / For over two hours I'm sure.' The ballad was published by the Poet's Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee.
This comic song features a very drunk narrator who has been locked out of his house and is trying to persuade his wife to let him back in. The way the song is laid out on the page, incoporating stage directions and spoken interludes, confirms that it was intended for public performance, probably in a music hall. Music halls originated in British taverns and inns in the early nineteenth century, when landlords hired acts to entertain their customers. Soon music halls were being custom-built, and the phenomenon reached its peak in the 1880s.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'In Airdrie town in fifty nine, / The evening being calm and fine; / Both rich and poor they did combine / To hold Cocky-Bendie's wedding O. / In Finnias lane they did agree, / That night to hold the wedding spree; / Then to Coatbrig they march'd wi' glee / To celebrate the marriage O. /  Durum doo a doo &c.' This ballad was published by the Poet's Box, which advertises 'NEW SONGS OUT EVERY WEEK'. The town of origin is not specified, but it was probably published in Dundee.
This ballad is a lively celebration of the marriage and wedding ceremony of a Lanarkshire couple. Ballads written for and about weddings, containing refences to drink and dancing as well as a few bawdy asides, were quite common. 'Cocky-Bendy's Wedding O' fits easily into this tradition. The final verse suggests that the song may have been written as a toast to and gift for a real couple: 'May health and happiness be his, / In true love and connubial bliss'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'What care I for Cockabendie, / Cockabendie loves not me.' The text preceding this ballad reads: 'A NEW SONG / Much in Request. / Sung with its proper Tune.' A stylised border has been included along the top of the sheet to make it more attractive.
There were many, many song sheets produced and sold during their period of popularity. As a result competition for sales was fierce and so gimmicks, such as illustrations and claims of popularity were included to boost sales. This was taken further by the patterers or chapmen who were responsible for selling them on the streets. They often sang ballads and tunes to advertise themselves, touting with other market-sellers for trade.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The Coalier had a Daughter, / And she is wondrous bonny; / But if you had once brought her / To a true sense of Joy, / Although she struggle for a while / yet you'll won about her, / If once her Heart you can beguile / you'll never go without her.'
The lyrics of this song are rather offensive to modern sensibilities. It endorses men forcing themselves on young girls, until they give in. The singer tells of how he persuaded the collier's daughter to lose her virginity to him. He says in the second verse, 'And ay the more that she refus'd / the more [kisses and caresses] I was applying'. In the last verse we learn that the lassie is also sleeping with her father's master, the Laird. This song reveals much about attitudes to women and class in the early eighteenth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come buy my New Ballad, / I have't in my wallet, / Tho twill not, I fear, please every Palate: / Then mark what ensu'th . . . ' This broadside is especially interesting and rare, since it also contains the musical score for the ballad. At the very bottom of the sheet, a short note states that the broadside was printed by Mr William Adam in May 1719, while the accompanying letters 'Edr' suggest that it was probably published in Edinburgh.
This ballad appears to be an attack on the Covenant Movement and the Protestant Succession, written by someone with strong Catholic sympathies. The image of the black cloak that dominates the ballad most likely symbolises some ritual from a religious ceremony. There are also references to the ending of Common Prayers, which Charles I had introduced in 1637. In addition to the religious symbolism, the ballad also contains references to the symbols of monarchy, such as the mitre and the crown. The references in verse four to the plundering of churches, also supports the interpretation that the ballad is a protest against the dominance of Protestantism.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Whaur the mischief am I noo? / Freens, excuse me, for I'm fu', / Fairly stappit tae the muzzle - choker block; / I've been oot an' hae'n a drap. . . ' Below the title we are told that 'Copies of this can be had at the Pox Box, Overgat, Dundee'. 'Freens' means 'friends', 'stappit' is 'full', 'muzzle' means 'face' and 'choker block' means 'chock-a'block'.
This light-hearted ballad tells the story of a coal delivery man called Jock. In the opening verses we learn that Jock is a hard-working man who likes a dram. Indeed, the first verse informs us that Jock is so full of drink that his coal cart has left the road. After this amusing mishap, Jock muses about his friends and the state of his relationships with them. The last two verses focus on the minister's doomed attempts to make Jock mend his wicked ways, and Jock's defiant response to the man of the cloth's ministrations.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The Clerk of the Pipe is a man of some weight. / And nothing will serve him but serving the state'. This song is labelled up as new and should be sung to the tune 'Down Derry Down'. Two woodcuts have been included, one of two gents drinking in a cellar and the other of a man in eastern garb, smoking a pipe.
The name 'Clerk of the Pipe' refers to an auditor of the Exchequer. The name derives from an earlier age, when Exchequer records were kept in 'Pipe Rolls' or long, narrow pieces of rolled up skin. The Exchequer controlled the amount of money issued both to the monarch and to the parliament to implement their policies and reforms. This song is praying for a progressively thinking clerk so that reforms can be implemented without too much fuss.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1: 'Some people say its jolly a single life to lead, / They only talk for talking's sake and so I never heed; / A single life is very well, it may be gay and free, / But the comforts of a married life are suited best for me.' Below the title we are told that 'Copies of this popular song, can always be had at the Poet's Box, Ovegate, Dundee'.
This light-hearted ballad muses on the advantages and disadvantages of married life and life as a bachelor. To support his argument that married life is best, the writer compiles a list of the simple pleasures that domesticity has to offer. Revealingly, however, these pleasures result directly from the hard work of his 'clean and tidy' wife. Indeed, this strong emphasis on a 'clean and tidy' wife providing a warm fire at the hearth recurs throughout the poem, illustrating the patriarchal nature of Scottish society at this time.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Was never in Scotland heard nor seen / such dancing nor deray, / neither at Falkland on the green, nor Peebles at the play, / As was (of wooers as I ween) / as Christs-Kirk on a day: / for there came Kittie washen clean , / in her new gown of gray / so gay that day.' Beneath the title the text reads: 'Composed (as is supposed) by King JAMES the fifth'.
The immense popularity of 'Christ's Kirk on the Green' in Scotland led to many reprints being made over several centuries. The National Library of Scotland holds several broadside versions of the ballad in its collection, all subtly different in some details of wording or spelling. These differences reflect the tendency of ballad publishers to update spellings or styles to the standards of their era. One reason for the poem's popularity may have been the belief that it was written by King James V, but many modern scholars tend to doubt this attribution, believing the poem to have been written slightly earlier, possibly by James I, who lived from 1394-1437.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Was never in Scotland heard nor seen / such Dancing nor Deray, / Neither on Falkland on the Green, / nor Peebles at the play; / As was of Wooers as I ween, / at Christs Kirk on a day; / For there came Kittie washen clean, / with her new Gown of Gray, / Full gay that day.' The text beneath the title reads 'Composed (as is supposed) by King James V. Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy'. Many reprints were made of this poem, and all those held by the National Library of Scotland show subtle differences in wording and spelling, reflecting the 'corrections' that were made by publishers according to the standards af their day.
'Christs Kirk on the Green' became one of the most influential poems ever produced in Scotland, but was itself based on a Scots poem from c. 1430-1450, the anonymous 'Peblis [Peebles] to the Play'. The author of 'Christs Kirk', who may have been James I or James V, pays tribute to the earlier poem in his opening verse. Both poems describe a community event that degenerates into a bawdy brawl, and this theme would go on to inspire later famous poems such as 'Leith Races' by Robert Fergusson (1750-1774) and 'Holy Fair' by Robert Burns (1759-1796).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Before a lonely cottage once, / With climbing roses gay, / I stood one summer's eve to watch / Two children at their play: / All round the garden walks they ran, / Filling the air with glee, / Till they were tired and sat them down / Beneath an old oak tree.' This broadside was published by J. Scott of Pittenweem in Fife, and sold by J. Wood of Edinburgh.
'The Child's Dream' is a dialogue between two children, in which they discuss how much better it would be to be in heaven than on earth. At the end of the poem it is revealed that the next winter, the two children and their mother were taken to be with their father in heaven. To most modern sensibilities this ballad would probably seem in quite bad taste, but in the late nineteenth century similar sentiments were commonly found in popular culture, especially among those writing 'Kailyard' literature, such as Ian Maclaren and J.M. Barrie.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad, 'Child with Three Fathers', begins 'You young lads and lasses draw near for a while, / I'll sing you a song that may cause you to smile'.
'Down by the Old Mill Stream' begins: 'You must know that my uncle is a farmer, / Keeps a large farm in the west, / While staying there I met a little charmer, / And many's a time I caressed'. There are no publication details on the sheet, although the number 51 at the bottom of the sheet suggests it is part of a sequence published by James Lindsay of Glasgow.
'Child with Three Fathers' is a humorous tale with moral overtones. A woman falls pregnant by a 'sporting young blade', who denies the baby is his and bribes two other young men to testify that it could just as much be theirs, too. Rather than deciding to drop the case, the 'bailie' orders all three contribute to the child's upkeep, leaving the young men aghast! 'Down by the Old Mill Stream' tells the tale of Mary, who drowns herself in the stream on account of being forbidden to marry by her father.Verse 1: 'I once did know a farmer, a good old jolly soul, / Who used to work upon the farm around his contry home / He had an only daughter and to win her I did try, / And when I asked him for her hand those words he did re' Below the title we are told that 'Thsi popular song can alwase be had at Poet's Box 182 Ovegate Dundee'.
This light-hearted broadside contains a running dialogue between a farmer and the young man who wishes to marry his daughter. Although this country song is a humorous ballad, it is interesting to note that there are also two spoken parts included in the lyrics. Many cheery, rural broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Cheer! Boys! cheer! no more of idle sorrow, / Courage, true heart, shall bear us on our way'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. The top of the sheet carries a woodcut illustration of a sailing ship, listing at a jaunty angle.
James Lindsay was a prolific broadside producer and distributor, and there are many examples of his work contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Farewells or reminiscences for sailors was also a popular broadside topic on Scottish sheets, especially given the country's proliferation of harbours and ports. This sheet, however, is more unusual, as the content is specifically aimed at Englishmen and the sailors' destination or purpose is not revealed.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'Cheer, Boys, Cheer! Tam Glen, and Maggy Lauder, / Bessie Bell, and Mary Gray, and Jean o' Sauchieh, / Met Auld Robin Gray, on the Banks o' Allan water, / And danced the Reel o' Boggie there wi' Jockie far awa.' Below the title we are told, 'Copies of this popular song can be had the Poet's Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee'. 'Boggie' is 'a designation for priests who married people contrary to canon law.
This light-hearted ballad contains four verses of nonsense about various Scottish folk characters and the funny escapades that they have been involved in. In short, the ballad is gossip transposed into song lyrics. The reference to Ireland in the last verse suggests that the writer of the ballad was Irish, or that the ballad was intended for an Irish-Scottish audience.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'I live in Falkirk and one morning last summer / A letter informed me my uncle was dead'. No publication details have been included on this sheet.
This charmingly eloquent lecture, warns unsuspecting and kind gentleman about the wiles of women, whilst travelling. A young woman, with what turns out to be a dummy baby, poses on public transport as a widow. Then whilst crying against their shoulder about her situation, relieves gentlemen of all their valuables and leaves them holding the baby! There are many broadsides which warn more nave citizens against charming women pick-pockets.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Bonnie Scotland! I adore thee / Now I wander sadly o'er thee, / Thy enchantments will restore me / Bonnie, bonnie Scotland! / Mid the rays of summer weather / Sweetly blooms thy mountain heather; / Love and beauty sport together; / Bonnie bonnie Scotland Oh.'
This is one of many songs that have been written in praise of Scotland's landscape. The recurring phrase 'Thy enchantments will restore me' suggests that it is narrated from the point of view of someone who has just returned to the country from abroad. Laments and sentimental songs written by exiled or returning natives about Scotland and Ireland are common around the world, as both these countries experienced high levels of emigration in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O bonnie Nelly Brown, / I will sing a sang to thee, / Though oceans wide between us row, / Ye'll aye be dear to me.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, / Overgate Dundee.'
These texts were sold to audiences which were firmly rooted in the oral tradition and had not enjoyed the diversion of television and radio. As a result, these sheets filled a much-needed gap in cheap and ephemeral entertainment. The subject matter, however, still had to be compelling and recognisable. This story of love sundered by a sailor's lifestyle may have had popular appeal in Dundee with its busy harbours and long-distance trade.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'It fell about the Lambmass Tide, / When the Leaves were fresh & green, / Lizie Bailie is to Gartartain / to see her Sister Jean. / She had not been in Gartartain, / even but a little while, / Till Luck and Fortune happn'd her, / and she went to the Isle.' This was a popular ballad, first published as a broadside but later collected in 'Herd's Ancient and Modern Songs' in 1776.
'Bonnie Lizie Balie' is about a girl who falls in love with a Highlander against the wishes of her Lowland family, and despite having suitors in the Lowlands. Tension and distrust between Highlands and Lowlands existed for much of Scotland's history and are reflected in the country's art and literature. The Highlands was often perceived to be wild, foreign-tongued, violent and uncivilised. This perception began to take on a more romantic appeal in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, due to the popularity of James MacPherson's 'Ossian' poems and Sir Walter Scott's 'Waverley' novels.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Farewell to Glasgow, / Likewise to Lanarkshire, / And farewell my dearest parents, / For I'll never see you mair; / For the want of pocket money, / And for the want of cash, / Makes mony a bonny laddie, / to leave his bonny lass.'
This ballad is narrated by a young man who is about to go off to become a soldier. The 'bonnie lassie's answer' referred to in the title is his sweetheart's response of 'no, no' every time the narrator tells her he must leave. The theme of young men leaving their loved ones to join the army was quite a common one in ballads and popular songs. Sometimes the prospect of military service is portrayed as a heroic adventure, sometimes, as in this case, it is portrayed as financial necessity. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Farewell to Glasgow, / Likewise to Lanarkshire, / And farewell my dearest parents, / For I'll ne'er see you mair'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow. The woodcut at the top of the sheet depicts a small town with three women standing talking together in the street.
This song deals with the common broadside theme of young lovers and their trials and tribulations. Here, the man feels that because he is poor he must leave his love. The only job which he can find is to leave Scotland as a soldier for the government. The girl is greatly vexed by the entire situation but, seeing that her lover will not be moved, offers to cross-dress and follow him into the army. The theme of disguised women entering men's professions, a well-attested reality in many cases, was also very popular on broadsides. It appears that this sort of adventure was appealing to the popular imagination.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1 begins: 'O say bonnie lass will ye lie in a barrack, / And marry a sodger, and carry his wallet?' There is an address to the reader at the beginning of the song, which comments on the plight and prettiness of soldiers' wives. 
Scots soldiers enjoyed, and indeed in many ways still do enjoy, a formidable military reputation. This idea is supported and furthered by the hyperbole and romanticism of this text. There were many narratives, and even more ballads, which warned against the perilous and insecure life of soldiers' wives, whilst at the same time glamorising the lifestyle and position. This is a problem which is still a large feature in today's debates about the responsibility of media portrayals in social problems.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'A something's birrin through my head, / An' at my heart's a hurlie burlie; / At times I think I'm halflins dead, / An' whiles I laugh an' whiles I'm sury. / I kenna fu' to gie't a name, / That's dung me in this tirrie-wirrie; / Gin it be love, she's a' the blame - / The Bonnie lass o' Boughty Ferry'. The broadside was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee, and at the foot of the page, we learn that the publisher also runs a postal service for songs.
This ballad is a fairly conventional love song, narrated by a man who vows to wed the girl of his dreams despite the scorn of his parents. It is written in a variety of Scots that is marked as an north-east dialect by the presence of 'Fat' meaning 'what', and 'fu' meaning 'how'. These pronounciations are not common to west coast varieties of Scots.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'She's gentle as the zephyr, / That sips of every sweet; / She's fairer than the lily / In nature's soft retreat. / Her eyes are like the crystle brook, / As bright and clear to see; / her lips outshine the scarlet flower / Of bonnie Ellerslie.' This song was to be sung to a tune named 'The Scarlet Flower'. The name and location of the published have been obscured on the broadside.
'Ellerslie' is an old spelling of the Scots village of Elderslie, Renfrewshire, which is best known as the birthplace of William Wallace. William Wordsworth referred to Wallace leaving his surname as his legacy, to be found all over Scotland like a 'wild flower'. Wallace has also been called 'Flower of Scotland' in the more modern song of that name by the Corries. Thus, although it might seem unusual, the poet here appears to be comparing his love's beauty not only literally to the beauty of a flower, but also in some way, to Scotland's warrior hero.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'It fell upon a day, on a bonnie simmer's day, / We got up in the morning early, / To hae our annual jaunt to that romantic spot, / Yoo've heard o' the Bonnie Den o' Airlie.' The sheet was published in Dundee by the Poet's Box.
There are other ballads which mention Airlie. For instance, 'The Bonnie Braes o' Airlie' celebrates the area's beauty. Then there is another, more famous, song about the burning of Airlie Castle, the seat of the Ogilvies, by the Earl of Argyle's covenanting forces in 1640. This is called 'The Bonnie Hoose o? Airlie'. The Den of Airlie was made a national nature reserve in March 2001. It is located in Angus, between Ruthven and Kirkton of Airlie.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'There grows a bonnie briar bush in oor kail-yard; / An' sweet are the blossoms on't in oor kail-yard, / An ahint that brier bush a ald and lass were heard, / Rich busy, busy cootrn' in oor kail-yard.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
This simple love ballad gave its name to a famous collection of stories, 'Beside the Bonnie Brier Bush', written by 'Ian MacLaren' (Rev. John Watson) and published in 1894. This book in turn became synonymous with a certain period of popular Scottish fiction, the 'Kailyard' era, around the turn of the twentieth century, when Christian parables in Scottish rural settings gained huge popularity both here and in America. Very little of this fiction is widely available today, although one of the 'Kailyard' authors, J.M. Barrie, remains internationally famous for his later work 'Peter Pan'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Bonnie sing the birds in the bright English valleys, / Bonnie bloom the flowers in the lime-sheltered alleys, / Golden rich the air, with perfume laden rarely / But dear far to me the Bonnie Braes o' Airlie.' The song was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
The song carries a dedication to the Countess of Airlie, of Airlie Castle. Near Alyth. Airlie Den, which is probably where this song refers to, is in Angus between Ruthven and Kirkton of Airlie. Underneath the piece it is interesting to note the list of popular songs also published by the Poet's Box. Many are on contemporary themes such as 'Death of Nelson' and 'The Night Maloney landed in New York'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Bonnie Bessie Lee had a face fu' o' smiles, / And mirth round her ripe lip was aye dancing slee'. There are two woodcuts on this page. The one included above the title depicts a young man and woman in a field with sickles. The other, at the end of the text, is of a fine lady wearing a grim facial expression.
This broadside addresses a common lyrical theme that of the differences between a blithe young girl and her older and wiser self. Bonnie Bessie is described as a slyph-like character radiating smiles and happiness wherever she is. Later, however, when the narrator returns from his travels he finds a more sober and domesticated Bessie, which does not please him. As a result he chooses to remember the younger Bessie.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'It's yon bonny banks and bonny braes, / Where the sun shines bright and bonny, / Where I and my true love went out for to gaze, / On the bonny, bonny banks of Lochlomond.' Below the title we are told that 'Copies of this popular song can be hud at 190 & 192 OVERGATE, DUNDEE'.
This most famous of Scottish folk songs is rumoured to have been written by a Jacobite prisoner, who was about to be executed for his part in the failed 1745-46 uprising. The dominant theme of the song is the ancient Celtic belief that if you die away from your home country, then your spirit returns home by an underground route called 'The Low Road'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
There are several theories concerning the ballad?s origins. One version is that the condemned prisoner wrote the song specially for his sweetheart. Another interpretation is that there were two Jacobite prisoners, with one of them being set free while the other was executed. This second version claims that the ballad was written by the prisoner who was sentenced to death, for the benefit of the pardoned Jacobite. Whatever the truth of the ballad's origins, it is a famous song that appeals to many people.Verse 1: 'Here's a health to them that's awa', / Here's a health to them that's awa', / And wha winna wish guid luck to our cause / May never guid luck be their fa', / It's guid to be honest and wise, / It's guid to be honest and true, / It's guid to support Caledonia's cause, / And bide by the bonnets o' blue.'
'Bonnets-o' Blue' could refer to two groups in Scottish Highland history. The Jacobite followers of Bonnie Prince Charlie, who fought government forces in 1715 and 1745, wore blue bonnets with white cockades. However, the government's Royal Highland Regiment, or Black Watch, which was formed from six independent companies in 1739, also wore blue bonnets with a 'Red Hackle' badge. The reference to 'Donald the chief o' the clan' does not clarify which group the song refers to, as Highland clansmen fought with both parties.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The ballad begins: 'See the bright sunbeam of gold lights the mountain, / Soon will be gild both the morass and flood.' The text preceding it reads: 'PRICE ONE PENNY. / Copies of this very popular song can always be had in the POET'S BOX, [text missing] / All kinds of Music supplied to order on moderate terms.' It was probably printed in Glasgow and was to be sung to its own original tune.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ye powers o' rhyme gie me a lift / To string thegither twa'r three line, / About some frien's that I hae here / That's lang been guid to me and mine.' A name at the end of the ballad identifies the writer as W. Chisholm. A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published by 'A. King and Co., Printers, Aberdeen'. Unfortunately, no date of publication is included on the sheet.
Located just outside Aberdeen, the Lyne o' Skene is a traditional, rural area where agriculture is the main industry. Consequently, this ballad is a celebration of the simple way of life that existed in this region at the time when this sheet was published. The writer also celebrates the people ('bodies') who live in the Lyne o' Skene, and claims that these people have been like family to him. Likewise, the writer also celebrates the beauty of the landscape, the wildlife and even the stormy weather! As highlighted by the recurring line of 'Auld Farran, &c' (a phrase that means 'old-fashioned', 'sagacious' and well-behaved'), the ballad is very much a tribute to the old traditions of rural life.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Noo I'll sing ye a sang in praise o' that land, / Where the snaw melts on the mountains so grand'. This song was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
This ballad sings the praises of the Royal Highland Regiment, better known as the Black Watch, who wore small round blue bonnets. It concerns an incident during the Crimean War, 1854-6, when Queen Victoria sent her 'lads wi' the Bonnets o' Blue' 'up the Alma's grim heights for tae conquror or die'. Such spelling errors are common in broadsides, where accuracy was often compromised in the rush to get the material to press.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond, / Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond, / If you search a' the warl' frae Lanark to Lunnon'. There are two woodcut scenes included on this sheet. The one at the top shows a swashbuckling gentleman. The one at the bottom is of a gentleman walking passed some fine buildings.
Although many broadside texts were really intended to be read or performed aloud to a wide audience, they still included printed material which made them more appealing. Cheaply available in an only partially-literate society, the pictures on the sheet would have allowed those with limited abilities to still participate in the sheet. The pictures would also have increased the perceived value of the sheet as a purchase, regardless of the content.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond, / Wha hasna heard tell o' blythe Johnny Drummond, / If you search a' the warl' frae Lanark to Lunnon, / Ye'll no find the equal o' blythe Johnny Drummond.' The woodcut at the top of the sheet depicts a rather roguish and chirpy gentleman standing on rough ground. The illustration at the bottom is of a well-dressed man in a city street.
This short and catchy song is a bit of a double joke. The impressive opening lines, when performed by a street entertainer, must have caught the audience's attention. The song, however, is about a famed and loved entertainer, who always engages the audience's attention, called Blythe Johnny Drummond. The scenes described in the song, are about performing a broadside song for an audience and so it is an interesting picture for the modern reader. Johnny Drummond himself, unfortunately, is now largely untraceable.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.Verse 1 begins: 'MARCH ! march ! Ettrick and Teviot-dale ! / Why my lads dinna ye march forward in orders?' It was published by T. Birt of 10 Great St Andrew Street, London. It is also noted that the song was greatly enjoyed by audiences when Mr Braham was performing.
'Blue Bonnets Over the Border' is a famous Scottish ballad which refers to Bonnie Prince Charlie's march into England in 1745. A blue bonnet or beret was a traditional piece of highland dress and due to the large highland composition of the Jacobite Army became associated with their faction. This was taken one stage further by affixing a white cockade to it, which was an official emblem of Jacobite affiliation. Today the march is still a popular military anthem, although it is especially favoured in Canada.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHERE wholesom Pot-Herbs flourish all around, / And spring luxuriant from the fertile Ground, / Behind a Bush, whose scanty Leaves afford / A flight Defence, whilst loud the Cannons roar'd, / High o'er his Head, and whistling thro' the Air, / The lethal Bullets fly in [b]lack Despair, / Taylor on the cold Earth extended lay, / And thus himself bemoan'd - O luckless Day.'
The events referred to in this ballad took place during the Jacobite uprising of 1745. The Jacobite soldiers of Charles Edward Stewart, having taken control of most of Edinburgh, blockaded Edinburgh Castle, which was still occupied by a government garrison. After six days of siege, the garrison commander General Guest ordered a cannonade to be opened against the Jacobite soldiers, killing Jacobitres and citizens alike, but ultimately ending the blockade. Much of this ballad is narrated by Captain Taylor, a terrified Jacobite officer trapped in nearby Livingston's Yards, who laments taking part in the blockade.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'A wee bit raggit laddie gangs an'ren thro' the street, / Wadin' 'mang the snaw wi' his wee hackit feet, / He's shiv'rin' I' the cauld blast, greetin' wi' the pain; / Wha's the puir wee callan? he's a drunkard's raggit wean.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee. It does not carry a date of publication.
'The Drunkard's Raggit Wean' paints a pitiful picture of a child left hungry, cold and miserable through neglect by his drunken parents. This was clearly intended to provide moral instruction against the dangers of drinking alcohol to excess, and may have been linked to the Temperance Movement. The first Temperance Societies opened in Scotland in the late 1820s, and the movement gathered momentum throughout the nineteenth century. The Temperance (Scotland) Act in 1913, gave Scottish districts the opportunity to vote themselves 'dry'. Several did, but the Temperance Movement lost popularity as the century progressed.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Oh, where, and oh, where is my highland laddie gone, / He's gone to fight the French, for King George upon / the throne, / And it's oh in my heart I wish him safe at home.'
There appear to be a number of different versions of this song. The one that was featured in Volume 6 of the 'Scots Musical Museum' (1803) begins: ' 'O where and O where does your highland laddie dwell; / He dwells in merry Scotland where the blue bells sweetly smell, / and all in my heart I love my laddie well'. In another version, meanwhile, the second line of the song reads, 'He's gone with streaming banners where noble deeds are done'. The words featured on this broadside refer to a young Scotsman going off to fight for king and country during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1792-1815). It is possible that variations occurred as different generations of listeners adapted this common theme.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'A wee bit raggit laddie gangs wan'rin through the street / Wadin' through the snaw wi' his wee hackit feet'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
James Lindsay operated his printing business between 1847 and 1907. Many of his premises were in the Saltmarket area of Glasgow, which was renowned for as an higher prolific with printing shops. As a result competition, although fond and familiar, was fierce, especially over quantities of sheets sold. Lindsay specialised in entertaining, rather than news, broadsides and was as equally involved in chapbook production.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'A wee bit raggit laddie gangs wan'ren thro' the street, / Wadin' 'mang the snaw wi' his wee hackit feet, / He's shiv'rin i' the cauld blast, greetin' wi' the pain.' The text preceding it reads: 'New Songs out every week. Copies of this Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee.'
Dundee is renowned for its numerous pubs, with roughly one pub to every 7 heads of household in Dundee, not all that long ago. This plaintive little piece, however, is an interesting social comment and shows that society was aware of the 'urchins' wandering the streets. Drinking and its results are not only highlighted here but this is also an interesting description of working class life and family expectations.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'They ca' me drucken Jock; / That may a' be true - / I neither beg nor steal, / Although I'm sometimes fou. / I'm neither lame nor crazy, / And I pay for what I drink; / There's no sae muckle odds o' fock / As ane would think.' 'Drucken' means 'drunken' and 'fou' means 'intoxicated'. The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
Written from the wise perspective of a man who likes his drink but is no alcoholic, this thoughtful and light-hearted ballad rails against the hypocrisy of those people who criticise his drinking, but ignore their own drinking habits. In particular, the ballad targets kirk elders for their Janus-faced attitude towards drink. Resolving each verse with the philosophical and liberal refrain that folk are not so very different in their basic needs, this ballad is very much in the tradition of Burns' poems such as 'Address To The Unco Guid, Or The Rigidly Righteous'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name is Jemie Broon, an' I'm servin' at Polnoon. / A farmhouse near Eaglesham, that fine, old-fashioned toon - / Whaur wi' the milk ilk mornin', a wee while after three, / We tak, the road richt merrily, the auld black horse and me.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box. 224 Overgate, Dundee.
The earliest printed ballads were versions of songs or poems from an oral tradition stretching back many years before printing was invented. Even as late as the nineteenth century ballads were written to be performed, and this example was clearly intended for performance by a man and a woman. The verses are narrated by the cart driver, the choruses by the woman he has given a lift to, and before each chorus there is a spoken aside by the woman, confiding her feelings for the cart driver. It is a theatrical structure.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Out in the cold world, out in the street, / Asking a penny of each one I meet, / Shoeless I wander about through the day, / Wearing my young life in sorrow away; / No one to help me, no one to bless, / No one to pity me, none to caress; / Fatherless, motherless, sadly I roam, / A child of misfortune, I'm driven from home.'
This ballad is not dated, but judging from its story - of a child left homeless and hungry by a mother's death and father's alcoholism - it is most likely to be from the mid-nineteenth century. In this period crusading movements against alcohol and private philanthropy towards children's charities increased dramatically. The huge success of Dickens novels like 'Oliver Twist' suggests the appetite the middle and upper classes had for tales of poverty and hardship, and the era spawned many lesser imitators and writers with similar concerns.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 and chrous: 'There was a puir lassie I pity her lot, / Her lad went and listed to wear the red coat, / To wear the red coat he has gaen faur awa', / Oh, my love's gone and listed in the bold forty-twa. / Let us drink and be merry / All sorrows refrain, / For we may and may never / All meet here again.' The broadside was published by The Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee, which advertises at the top of the sheet, 'NEW SONGS OUT EVERY WEEK', and at the bottom, 'Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of postage stamps'.
This ballad concerns a man who has enlisted to be a soldier in the 42nd regiment or 'Black Watch', leaving his sweetheart at home. The voice narrating the ballad seems to change throughout. The first two lines are sung by someone standing apart and describing the 'puir lassie's situation, but the next two seem to be sung by the 'puir lassie' herself. The chorus is then sung, appropriately, as a group: 'Let us drink and be merry'. Such changes in narrative were quite common in ballads, perhaps reflecting the fact that they would be performed by someone who would assume the different character roles during the unfolding of the ballad.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come listen now and you shall hear the news that came to hand, / Concerning Saint Brigham Young, that famous lady's man, / We're told that all the Mormons, and his bawling squalling band, / Will have for to skedaddle from the Yankee Doodle land . . . '
In its attack on Brigham Young (1801-77), the founder of the Mormon Church, this ballad is not perhaps the best example of religious tolerance. The ballad's reference to a possible jail sentence for Young, suggests that it was written some time in 1871, for it was in this year that Young faced polygamy charges in a federal court. The fact that such an unusual ballad could be sold in Scotland, shows that people took a keen interest in the world around them - although, admittedly, much of the ballad does take a rather prurient interest in Brigham Young's complicated matrimonial affairs.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Elements, Earth, Water, Air and Fire, / Make happy Men, or sometime they conspire.' The text preceding this ballad reads: 'Begun at Edinburgh, the 3d of February 1700. ????? Quis, talia fando, / Temperet a Lachrymiss? ????'.
The first reference in this text is to the Darien Scheme established roughly between 1695 and 1700. This was to be Scotland's first colonial exercise, (to the isthmus of Panama) earlier attempts having been blocked by English traders. Scotland was inspired by the thought of increased trade and opportunities and it is thought that over half the Lowland population invested some money in it. However, the scheme proved to be a disastrous washout, with many Scots dying on foreign shores. Most of the rest of this text is a warning against the evils of money, profit and foreign travel.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You've heard tell of this muckle dyke, / Built on the banks of Clyde, man, / That has near stood the 6th year's flood, / And Winter's storm beside, man'. It was published by William Carse of Glasgow and probably sold for one penny.
This light-hearted ballad details a dispute that raged on regarding a dyke that was built along the edge of the Clyde. It appears that the wall blocked a pathway favoured by a large number of people in the Glasgow area and, as such, its construction was vehemently protested. The dyke being referred to is almost certainly 'Harvie's Dyke', the protests against which led to a court case and a final decision in favour of the protestors being passed in the House of Lords. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes several broadsides regarding 'Harvie's Dyke'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Late at e'en, drinking the wine, / And ere they paid the lawing, / They set a combat them between, / To fight it in the dawing.' This broadside includes decorative detail around the title, and a small illustration of a sailing vessel after the last verse.
As with many early ballads, the origins of 'The Dowie Dens o' Yarrow' are shrouded in mystery. A popular and well-known song, there are still to this day a number of different versions in existence, including one which starts 'There lived a lady in the North'. As part of the oral tradition, it was common for ballads to undergo changes with each telling. The Yarrow Valley stretches down through the Scottish borders towards Selkirk. Although neither were responsible for this ancient ballad, the Scottish literary heavyweights, James Hogg (1770-1835) and Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), are both said to have drawn inspiration for their work from the beautiful Yarrow Valley.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'One Paddy Doyle lived near Killearney, / He courted a maid called Biddy Toole'.
As with many broadside lyrics this a humorous and gentle warning on the subject of love, which would probably have been instantly recognisable to most of the audience. Paddy had a few doubts about marriage despite his overwhelming love for Biddy. After a night of binge drinking with the boys, however, he collapsed and dreamt of Biddy. He thought he was cuddling into her but, upon awaking, realised he had really been rolled up next to the neighbour's ass. Horrified and mortified, he ran straight home to patient and understanding Biddy, and proposed marriage!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'Noo ye a' ken my big brither Jock, / His richt name is Johnny Shaw, / We'll he's lately jined a fitba' club, / For he's daft aboot fitba'. It was written by James Currin and sung by J.C. McDonald, and could be purchased from the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
The narrator of this comical verse is bewailing his brother's unusual foray into the game of football. His brother, Johnny Shaw, has joined the Dooley Fitba' Club and, despite the club's obvious shortcomings, thinks 'they are the prime'. The reality of course is quite different, and therein lies the humour. The song alternates between lines of verse and comic 'patter' which, if performed well, would have proved extremely funny. Although this song was printed in Dundee it refers to matches in the football-hotbed of Glasgow. It mentions a charity match with Rangers and an encounter between the wonderfully-named Barrowfield Ironclads and Brigton Banebreakers. Unusually, this Dundee Poet's Box publications has a name attached and some context given for its recital - both by the stage directions and the separate singer's name. The author James Currin or Curran, originally from Co. Donegal in Ireland, was a well-known Glasgow songwriter and parodist whose works were popular in the music halls of the time. This song is probably the basis for the 'Fitba' crazy' song made famous by Jimmie MacGregor and Robin Hall in the 1960s. A version was also included by Ewan MacColl in 'Scotland sings', a collection published in 1953. MacColl heard the song from his father William Miller. 
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Noo ye a' ken my big brither Jock, / His richt name is Johnny Shaw, / We'll he's lately jined a fitba' club, / For he's daft aboot fitba'.' The text preceding it reads: 'Written by JAMES CURRIN. Sung by J.C. M'Donald.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
The narrator of this comical verse is bewailing his brother's unusual foray into the game of football. His brother, Johnny Shaw, has joined the Dooley Fitba' Club and, despite the club's obvious shortcomings, thinks 'they are the prime'. The reality of course is quite different, and therein lies the humour. The song alternates between lines of verse and comic 'patter' which, if performed well, would have proved extremely funny. Although this song was printed in Dundee it refers to matches in the football-hotbed of Glasgow. It mentions a charity match with Rangers and an encounter between the wonderfully-named Barrowfield Ironclads and Brigton Banebreakers. Unusually, this Dundee Poet's Box publication has a name attached and some context given for its recital - both by the stage directions and the separate singer's name. The author James Currin or Curran, originally from Co. Donegal in Ireland, was a well-known Glasgow songwriter and parodist whose works were popular in the music halls of the time. This song is probably the basis for the 'Fitba' crazy' song made famous by Jimmie MacGregor and Robin Hall in the 1960s. A version was also included by Ewan MacColl in 'Scotland sings', a collection published in 1953. MacColl heard the song from his father William Miller. 
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'There's people in this world, who though, / Possessed of strength and health; / Will sit and sigh and grumble, / Because they have not wealth; / Instiad of trying to win it, / They're time they wile away, / When people such as these I meet, / To them these words I say.' This song was written, composed and sung by Tom Glen, and published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee.
With its simple refrain, and sentiments such as 'Pluck up courage, don't despair', this song was clearly designed to raise the morale of its listeners. It is likely that the song was written to be performed in music halls, which in the second half of the nineteenth century were the most popular outlets of public entertainment in Britain. A better-known but similarly cheerful song that originated in music hall culture is 'It's a Long Way to Tipperary', by Jack Judge and Harry Williams.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first ballad begins: 'Come all you true-born Irishmen wherever ye be, / I pray you give attention, and listen unto me'. This song is given the greatest space and boldest print on the sheet and so must have been given more precedence.
The second ballad, 'Silver Bells', was a Victorian music hall song by Harry Thomas Dale. Dale was born in Birmingham in 1844 and died in Ashington, Northumberland in 1914 aged 70.  He wrote over 300 songs for the music hall and performed regularly in Scotland at such venues as the Britannia Music Hall in Glasgow. Later in his career he became a Jester performing with John Henry Cooke's Royal Circus in Edinburgh. The third ballad begins: 'At dreary midnight's cheerless hour, / Deserted e'en by Cynthia's beam'. These two ballads have been given a smaller and divided space, perhaps denoting that they are of lesser importance or value. This sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow.
Broadsides were sold to large numbers of people who then shared them with even larger audiences. They were a cheap and common form of social entertainment in age without television and radio. Buying a sheet with more than one song on it would have made hard-headed money sense but a sheet with three songs on is relatively unusual!Verse 1: 'I hate to be unsociable with anyone I meet, / I like someone to chatter to me when I sit down to eat / And if I have to go by train a mile or two away, / Unto my fellow passenger I?m pretty sure to say . . .' Below the title we are told that, 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee'.
The essential message that the narrator of the ballad wishes to convey is that since life is short, we should try to be as friendly and helpful to one another as possible. The list of popular songs at the bottom of this sheet is very interesting, with 'The Iron Horse' ballad being an imaginative nickname for an early rail locomotive. As many ballads were written to commemorate special occasions, such lists often help historians to roughly identify the publication date of broadsides.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'As I was walking one evening of late, / When Flora's green mantle the field decorate, / I carelessly wandered, where I did not know, / On the banks of a fountain that lies in Glencoe.' This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow.
The second ballad begins: 'Gae bring my guid auld harp ance mair, / Gae bring it free and fast, / For I maun sing anither sang, / E'er a' my glee be past . . . '
This broadside contains two separate ballads, thus providing the buyer with two songs for the price of one. In 'Donald's Return To Glencoe', a young man meets a young woman at the banks of a fountain in Glencoe. Despite the ominous setting for their meeting, this ballad is in fact a love song - with the last verse suddenly revealing a happy and unexpected twist in the tale. The second ballad, 'Scotland Yet', is an epic-type eulogy to a Scotland of the glorious past, with references to William Wallace, the Ossian poems and 'freedom'.This ballad begins: 'As I was walking one evening of late, / When Flora's gay mantle the fields decorate, / I carelessly wandered where I did not know, / On the banks of a fountain that lies in Glencoe.' Two woodcut illustrations decorate this sheet, one of a man and a woman in a rural setting and the other of a young woman on her own.
Donald's wanderings bring him into contact with a young woman named Flora. Upon talking to her, he realises that the young woman is awaiting the return of her sweetheart, also called Donald, from the wars in Europe. The ballad ends on a happy note, with her realisation that the stranger she is confiding in is none other than her beloved Donald. Another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, entitled 'The Massacre of Glencoe', which features two characters of the same name, sadly does not have such a happy ending!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'YOUNG Donald is the blithest lad / That e'er made love to me'. It was published by Pitts of 6 Great St Andrew Street, London. Above the title a crude woodcut of a well-dressed lady holding a long curly wig has been included.
Many of Pitts's publications are on Scottish topics and have found their way into Scottish collections. There are many of them in National Library of Scotland's Collection. It would suggest that Pitts's system of distribution was excellent, if his sheets were travelling so far. It would also suggest that contrary to popular belief, items on a Scottish theme were popular with audiences of all nationalities. This song was written by the Orcadian David Vedder (1790-1854) and appeared frequently in chapbooks and - as here - on broadsides.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Young Donald is the blythest lad, / That e'er made love to me ; / Whene're he's by my heart is glad, / He seems so gay and free'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box, who operated out of 182 Overgate, Dundee.
This was a popular song not only in Dundee, but also in Perthshire, Fife and Forfarshire. It was written by Orkneyman, David Vedder (1790-1854). Over the years, the Poet's Box were registered at several different premises in the Overgate, and were prolific publishers of ballads like this. A list of other songs available is included at the bottom of the sheet.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'My names Donald Blue, you ken me fu' we'll / And if you be civil I'm a civel chiel'. There are no publication details attached to this sheet. A woodcut of two clasped hands has, however, been included above the title.
The content of this ballad, is an interesting twist on a common broadside theme. Many broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection - both fact and fiction- deal with the personal and social consequences of drunken husbands. This sheet, however, carries stories of women, all wives, who have a debilitating drink habit. They are accused of neglecting their children's welfare and causing their husbands great distress, as well as letting themselves down badly.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'Come my lass and be nae blate, / And I will be your guard for ever, / And I will dwat you air and late, / And you'll sit beside young Donald's mither.' Chorus: 'Come awa' wi' me, lassie, / Come awa' wi' me lassie, / I'll row ye in my tartan plaid. / My lowland bride - my bonnie lassie.'
This ballad appears to be a grotesque parody of the type of romantic love songs that were commonly printed on broadsides. Various romantic conventions feature, including professions of undying love and imagery from nature. However, the twist in the tale is that the 'lowland lassie', who is the poem's romantic focus, is expected to share a bed with Donald and his mother. Donald resolves the situation by kicking his mother 'oot ower the bed' and almost killing her. It may be that the ballad was intended to be a satire on the 'romantic Highlander' that was a popular literary figure in the late-eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'THERE was a prudent grave Physician, / Careful of Patients as you'd wish one; / Much Good he did with Purge and Glister, / And well he knew to raise a Blister; / Many he cur'd, and more he wou'd, / By Vomit, Flux, and letting Blood; / But still his Patients came again, / And most of their old Ills complain'.
Broadside ballads covered many subjects, from love to war, and often contained some deeper moral message. 'An Account of the Doctor and his Patients' is primarily a comic song. Its 'message', plainly printed at the end, is that despite advice and warnings about what is 'right', humans will continue to act on their impulses and appetites: 'The wife may preach, and Satyrists rail, / Custom and Nature will prevail.'
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: ''Twas in the month of June, when the birds were in full tune, / I first met a charming little creature, / Hey eyes they shone as bright as the twinkling stars at night, / And a kind smile played on every feature.' A note below the title states that ' Copies of this highly popular song can only be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the sheet cost one penny. A further note mentions that the ballad should be sung to an original tune.
Set in Glasgow, this romantic ballad is written from the viewpoint of a young man who was been thunderstruck by the grace and beauty of a young woman called Diana Kitty Annie Maria, whom he encountered while out walking. Madly in love with his sweetheart, the young suitor proceeds to describe the various places in Glasgow that he and his beloved have visited, plus the favourable reaction that Diana's beauty has aroused in Glasgow. The stricken suitor concludes his tale by telling his audience about his ambitious plans to marry Diana, and the number of children he hopes they will have together.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: SATAN. / WHat Haste! Young Man, why up so soon I' th' Morn? / YOUNG MAN. / My Work is great, and, to do it I'm Sworn. / SATAN. / It is too soon, ly down, and take thy Rest. / YOUNG MAN. / My Work is weighty, and I must not Jest.' The broadside was published in 1716 by John Reid of Pearson's Close in Edinburgh.
The biblical tale of Christ being tempted in the wilderness by Satan was probably the inspiration for this ballad. The ballad appears to be a very serious attempt to convey the correct way of living to its readership. Satan's recurring argument is that the Young Man has many years in which to live a sinful, reckless life and still repent; the Young Man's consistent response is that he must be constantly striving to lead a good life, and that earthly temptations lose their appeal when compared with Christian salvation. He warns, though, that not all men are as aware of this as he: 'Wisdom's but rare, those that be wise are few'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'DEATH: "O Sinner ! come by Heaven's decree, / My warrant is to summon thee'. It was supposedly composed by a Sunday school teacher.  It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow (1852-59), and includes three woodcut illustrations along the top.
Most of Lindsay's broadsides, and he produced many, carry an illustration and, more unusually perhaps, they are often relevant to the text. Here two biblical scenes have been included, one of them set in a modern context. This helps enhance the moral reminder contained in the text. There are also two decorative motifs included. The cartouche on the right can be seen on other Lindsay sheets. It is relatively unusual to find a printer with such a large stock of expensive woodcuts of such varied themes.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This ballad begins: 'Argyle and Mar are gone to War / Which hath breed great Confusion / For Church & State they do debate / Through Difference and Division'. A note below the title states that this dialogue was to be sung to a tune called 'the Hare Merchants Rant, &c'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Illustrated with woodcuts depicting martial scenes, this broadside refers to the Jacobite Rebellion of 1715. It was 'Bobbing' John Erskine, the Earl of Mar, who raised the standard for the House of Stewart, following his sacking by King George I. Leading the Protestant and Hanoverian forces against Mar's army, meanwhile, was the Duke of Argyll. The two armies engaged one another at Sheriffmuir, just outside Stirling. However, just when victory was in his grasp, Mar lost his nerve, and  inexplicably withdrew his army from the battlefield. Many historians argue that if Mar had held his nerve, then the Stewarts might well have been returned to the throne.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ' THE Meal was dear short shine, / When they were Married together, / Ann Maggy she was in her prime, / When Willy made Courtship till her. / Twa Pistols Charge'd be-guess, / To give the Courtier a Shot, / Ann fine came ban the Lass, / Wee Swats drawn frae the Butt?' This ballad was to be sung 'To an Excellent New Tune', which unfortunately is not given.
This Scots ballad is structured as a dialogue between an old man and his daughter's prospective husband. The discussion is over the extent of tocher the young man can expect to gain from the marriage. 'Tocher' is a Scots term for a bride's family's contribution to a marriage arrangement, and is derived from the Gaelic 'tochradh'. A tocher might typically consist of linen, crockery or silverware, but in this ballad the father appears to be able to offer only some flea-ridden bedclothes, some plough stilts, a wooden chest and some meal sacks.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name's Chrlie Mash, and I've just come from school, / With the heartache, the blues, and the tears in my eye; / I've had a good hiding' they have called me a spoon, / If I wasn't afraid, for two pins I would die . . . ' Below the title, it is recorded that 'THIS POPULAR SONG CAN BE HAD POET'S BOX, Overgate, Dundee'.
This light-hearted ballad is narrated by a lovesick young schoolboy, who tries unsuccessfully to woo a number of schoolgirls from different countries, who all - rather strangely - study at a local girls? school. Despite his best attempts at sweet talk, the Scottish, French, German and Greek girls all reject his romantic overtures. Although the audience should not really be taking any pleasure in the poor boy's misfortunes, each one of these ill-starred romantic dialogues is very amusing - particularly the rejection by the Scots lass, which is written in broad Dundonian. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Charlie Grey's come again, / Charlie Grey's come again; / Tell the news through brough an' glen, / Charlie Grey's come again!' The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the place or date of publication. It is decorated with a woodcut of a thistle.
'Charlie Grey' is a reference to Earl Charles Grey (1764-1845), who became Whig Prime Minister in November 1830, and whose government was responsible for passing the Parliamentary Reform Bill of 1832. The song was clearly written by a Scottish supporter of Grey, and sings the praises of leading Scottish Whigs and Radicals of the period. Its references to bagpipes and  glens indicate that it was inspired, ironically, by ballads written about the possible return of Bonnie Prince Charlie, the most famous of which was 'Will Ye No' Come Back Again?' The irony is that the Whigs were the traditional opponents of the Jacobites.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come listen to me while I sing, / Of misery I've had my share; / Till fortune took me under her wing, / And my troubles all vanished like air.' A note below the title states that this ballad should be sung to the air, 'The Night before Larry was Stretch'd', and that 'Copies of this humorous song can only be had at the Poet's Box' (probably Glasgow). This sheet was published on Saturday 28th August, 1858.
This amusing ballad tells the picaresque tale of a woman who loses her sight and, thanks to the intervention of a quack doctor caled Dr Snigum, ends up acquiring the eyesight of a cat. Verging on the supernatural at times, this surreal ballad describes the humorous escapades that occur as a result of her viewing life with a cat's eyesight. In short, this ballad is the perfect illustration of the proverbial "shaggy dog's tale" - or rather a "shaggy cat's tale".
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Ye banks, and braes, and streams around / The Castle o' Montgomery, / Green be your woods, and fair your flowers, / Your waters never drumlie! / There simmer first unfauld her robes, / And there they langest tarry; / For there I took the last fareweel / O' my sweet Highland Mary.' This broadside was published by J. Scott of Pittenweem in Fife, and sold by J. Wood of 49 North Richmond Street in Edinburgh.
This song is better known as 'Highland Mary', and was written by Robert Burns. The absence of a properly standardised or enforced copyright law until 1912 made it easy for broadside publishers to reproduce songs without acknowledging the author, and could change wording or titles at will. 'Highland Mary' was about Mary Campbell (1763-86), a woman of Highland descent whom Burns met when she was employed as a dairymaid at Coilsfield, seat of the Montgomerys in Ayrshire. The two became lovers before Mary's tragically early death.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My mouth I'll open for the dumb, / My plea is for the meek'. The lyrics were, allegedly, penned 'by a Carter'.
Carters had a reputation for being both poor and drunk. As a result, many members of society endured their existence out of necessity. This poem takes an enlightened stance on the treatment and care of work animals. Its rather critical stance perhaps suggests that the 'by a Carter' comment is a literary device to drive the message home.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This ballad begins: 'The sky wis blue, and the wind blew high; / And the sun wis shining fairly, / When the Duke O' Argyle, he put on his Sunday til / And cam doon tae the Carse O' Gowrie Dairy'. The Carse of Gowrie is in Perthshire. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
The narrative is comic and unusual - the Duke of Argyle takes the Lass o' Ballochmyle (named, presumably, after the Burns poem of the same name) to the Carse o' Gowrie Dairy. The Lord Provost is there but they ignore him as they are enjoying sampling the cheese and scones too much. The narrator is a worker at the dairy.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now Brave Captain Gordon's come, / And brought more Prizes with him home / Let's Drink a Cup full to the brim, / In Health to Captain Gordon, / Because where ever he appears, / He clears Our Coasts of Privateers, / Makes Merchant Ships Trade without fears / Through out the Northern Ocean.' The ballad was to be sung 'To an Excellent New Tune, Hark I hear the Cannons Roar'.
The 'Captain Gordon' toasted here may be the same man featured in Robert Burns' verse epistle 'To Captain Gordon'. This cannot be verified, because the broadside is not dated, and Burns' poem makes no reference to his addressee defeating privateers. Privateers were pirates, and British waters continued to be troubled by piracy throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as they had been for centuries beforehand. The event that gave rise to this ballad in praise of Admiral Thomas Gordon (1658?-1741) occurred in 1704 when Gordon who was captain of the 'Royal Mary' a vessel of the Scottish navy, captured a French privateer and brought her in to Leith. Gordon was very much a Scottish hero and even more so when he helped a French spy to land at Slains Castle to visit Jacobite supporters. These events took places against the backdrop of the debate over the Union with England and this is clearly referred to in the ballad with mentions of 'tyrannie' and 'slaverie'. The 'Annandale' mentioned halfway through the ballad was a Scottish ship seized by the (English) East India Company in 1704. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Come all young men and maidens atend unto my ryme, / Tis of a lovely female was scarcely in her prime, / Her cheeks they were like a rose admired all around, / She was call'd young Carroline of Edinborough Town'. It was advertised as 'A much admired song' and includes a woodcut illustration of a haughty young woman being pursued by a man pulling a cart. The broadside was published by P. Brereton [?] of Dublin, and probably sold for one penny.
In typical ballad style, there is a tragic end and, most importantly, a moral to the tale of 'Carroline of Edinburgh Town'. After finding what she believes to be true love with 'Young Henery', and subsequently meeting the disapproval of her parents, Caroline is persuaded to run off with her sweetheart. Once she is far from home, she soon discovers his true nature and, in her misery, resorts to suicide. This tragic, but highly formulaic, tale not only carries a warning for young women to be wary when they fall in love, but also for parents to be more tolerant and understanding.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Was ever old warrior of suff'ring so weary? / Was ever the wild beast so bayed in his den. / The Southern bloodhound lie in kennel so near me, / That death would be welcome to Callum O' Glen.' The song was published at 190 and 192 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box, and priced one penny.
This ballad is narrated by an old Highland soldier, and appears to be set in the aftermath of one of the Jacobite uprisings of the eighteenth century. The narrator refers to his sons having been killed and the homes of his kinsmen having been burnt. This suggests that the ballad is referring to the 1745-6 uprising, which provoked harsh reprisals against Highland Jacobites by the Duke of Cumberland's men after the decisive battle at Culloden. The cruelty is recalled in the poignant image, 'For the dew it lies red on the vales of Lochaber'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'The Caledonian Laddie' begins: 'Blythe Sandy is a bonny boy, And always is a wooing, O, / He is e'er so bold and kind, / Although he is a wooing, O!' 'Sich a Getting Up Stairs' begins: 'At Kentuck last night a party met, / Dey say dem going to hab a treat'. The sheet was published by J. Harkness of Church Street, Preston, and is illustrated with two woodcuts.
The two ballads on this sheet are very different in tone. 'The Caledonian Laddie' is about a young Scotsman marrying his sweetheart. 'Sich a Getting Up Stairs' is about a party held by African Americans in Kentucky. The song is supposed to be written in an African American English dialect, and its language and sentiments are very hostile towards black Americans. Its publication in Britain (probably in the late nineteenth century), on a broadside intended for public entertainment, portray the prevailing social attitudes of the time.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Clyde's bonny hills whar the heather was blooming / An' laddies and lassies lang lo' a' the day'. This sheet is numbered 35 in the publisher's sequence. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
Many of these broadside songs are firmly based in the oral tradition and as such contained easy to remember repetitive elements like the chorus and request to 'bundle up'. This song is a strange mixture of practical and romantic love which must in some capacity reflect the society which it was written in. It is also reveals the extent of parental guidance in match-making, and the prevalence of and opportunity for more casual love affairs.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Burns, Old Scotland's Son of Song, / Thine was the grand, the magic lyre, / That filled the homes of Caledon, / With strains all nations do admire.'
This broadside ballad is a eulogy - or threnody - to Scotland's national bard, Robert Burns. In short, it is a literary form of the 'immortal memory', as proclaimed on the 25th of January by Burns' societies the world over. A festival in the poet's honour was held at Alloway in 1844, and the ballad might well have been written specially to celebrate this event. Likewise, the centenary of Burns' birth in 1859 also witnessed nationwide celebrations of his work. The accompanying woodcut shows two ancient lyres entwined by a crown of laurel, this being the classical symbol for a poet who wrote verses of great lyrical beauty.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'IN green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers, / Sae enraptured and happy in each ither's arms ; / As Burns the sweet bard, and his dear Highland Mary.' Included at the top of the sheet is a small illustration of a lyre surrounded by foliage and musical notation.
This ballad celebrates the very real and deep love that existed between Robert Burns (1759-96) and Mary Campbell (1763-86), also known as Highland Mary. At least two of Burns's compositions are said to have been inspired by her, 'Highland Mary' and 'The Highland Lassie, O'. Tragically, Mary's life was cut short in 1786 when she died of a fever, which some sources suggest was the result of a problematic pregnancy. Burns appears to have been deeply affected by her death, and for years after made frequent references to her in his correspondence - even after his marriage to Jean Armour.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Ques. WHy must our Councellors be fools? / Ans. 'Cause then they're fittest to be tools. / Q. And what supplies their want of sense? / A. Their want of bread and Conscience.'  The broadside carries no date or place of publication.
A catechism is a collection of questions and answers pertaining to the Bible. It was intended to ensure that churchgoers were versed in the moral teachings of the Bible even if they had difficulty remembering long passages of scripture. The Shorter Catechism, created in 1648, is still used today in the Free Presbyterian Church of Scotland. In this poem, the question and answer structure of the Catechism is adopted to satirise civic corruption in the royal burgh of Burntisland, Fife. Among various charges, councillors are accused of accepting bribes, and the priest of being a puppet of the local landowner.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Our poets noo are turnin' scarce, / Of that we a' can tell, / Though mony a chap may write a verse / That only suits himsel'. / But though they paint the flowery spring / And bonnie sparkling rill, / They haena got the pith to sing / Wi' Burns and Tannahill.'
This ballad laments the sad fact that the Scottish poets and songwriters living in the unspecified period in which the broadside was published, are not nearly as good as Robert Burns (1759-96) and Robert Tannahill (1774-1810). Clearly, the author regards the dying embers of the Scottish Enlightenment as a golden age for writing in Scotland. Accompanied by five woodcuts, the four verses and the chorus all contain a closing refrain that toasts the immortal memory of Burns and Tannahill. The ballad also celebrates the lowly social status of the two poets, hinting at the fact that a poetic fortune is a different type of currency entirely.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.The first of these pieces begins: 'In green Caledonia there ne'er were twa lovers / Sae enraptured and happy in each ither's arms, / As Burns the sweet bard and his dear Highland Mary / And fondly and sweetly he sang o' her charms.' A simple woodcut of three children sitting on a fence decorates the top of the sheet.
The second ballad begins: 'Gae bring tae me a pint o' wine, / And fill it in a silver tassie, / That I may drink, before I go, / A service to my bonnie lassie.'
The National Library of Scotland has several broadsides in its collection on the subject of Robert Burns (1759-96) and Highland Mary's pastoral romance. Indeed, Burns wrote several poems about her himself: 'Gae Bring tae me . . .' often called 'The Silver Tassie', is one such piece. In it, Burns bemoans that he must leave his 'bonnie Mary' and commentators have judged it safe to assume that this refers to Mary Campbell, or Highland Mary.Verse 1: 'In Glasgow's famous streets, / Some little boys began, / To amouse themselves, as all kids would, / With the butcher's greasy van. / "It shall not be," the butcher cries; / I'll chap each little rascal's head," / He cried with indignation; / The butcher he ran down the street, / The bobby there he chanced to meet, / And he charged him to the station.' The ballad was to be sung to the air 'The Battle of Stirling Bridge'. It was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee, priced one penny.
This comic ballad appears to be a satire on heavy-handed policing. A group of boys are chased by a butcher after making fun of his greasy van. The butcher runs into a policeman and makes a complaint, and a dozen armed police raid the boys' homes by night and imprison them. In court, each boy is 'sentenced' to 'Go home and get your porridge'. The term 'bobbies' is derived from the name of the then Home Secretary, Robert Peel, who founded the Metropolitan Police in 1829.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'In green Caledonia there ne'er were two lovers, / Sae enraptured and happy in each others arms, / As Burns the sweet bard and his dear Highland Mary, / And fondly and sweetly he sang of her charms.' A note at the foot of this sheet states it was published by 'Moore, Printer, Cheapside, Belfast'.
This ballad celebrates the beauty of Mary Campbell (1763-1786), who was the inspirational Muse behind the songs by Robert Burns, 'Highland Mary' and 'The Highland Lassie, O'. Legend has it that Burns asked Mary to go to Jamaica with him, which she consented to, but that she died in Greenock from a fever - possibly during a premature childbirth - before they could leave. Although Burns's friends tried to dissuade him from continuing his relationship with Mary by highlighting her reputed looseness, Burns ignored their advice. This ballad tells the sad story of the love affair between Burns and Mary Campbell, with the final setting of the ballad being a graveyard in Greenock. The printer, Moore, may have been James Moore who had a Poet's Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856. It is not known if there was any connection between Moore and the Poet's Boxes in Edinburgh, Dundee and Glasgow.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verseThis ballad begins: 'Bully Stot can blend a lance, / Imitate the folk o' France, / Cares no a birse for Queen or law, / Fain wad whuff our Kirk awa'. The chorus begins: 'Bully Stot's i' the jail, / Bully Stot's i' the jail'. It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh and probably sold for one penny.
A large number of broadsides assumed a certain degree of knowledge amongst their readership and, as a result, gave little or no contextual information. Although this often makes it difficult for a modern-day audience to identify the characters and incidents described, they were usually familiar to the readers of the day. This is most certainly the case with the ballad of 'Bully Stot'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'The bonnie, bonnie bairn, wha sits poking the ase, / Glowering in the fire wi' his wee roun' face'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. The illustration over the title is a woodcut of a little boy cuddling a goat, in what appears to be a yard.
James Lindsay, printer, stationer and supplier, is known to have worked from 9 King Street between 1852 and 1859. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a good number of sheets from Lindsay's press and he appears to have been a prolific broadside producer. Many of his sheets include woodcuts which would have added to the perceived value of the sheet greatly - a good marketing ploy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Britannia, the gem of the ocean, / The star of the brave and the free, / The shrine of a patriots devotion, / Old England my homage to thee. / Thy banner makes tyranny tremble, / When liberty has cause in the view, / Thy banner makes tyranny tremble, / Whilst borne by the red, white, and blue.' This broadside was priced at one penny and published on Saturday, 6th September 1856, by the Poet's Box. The town of publication has been obscured, but it was probably Glasgow.
This is a ballad praising the British armed forces. 'Britannia' here is used as a poetic name for Great Britain rather than as a specific reference to any of the naval vessels that have been named 'Britannia'. The third verse pays tribute to someone called Napier. This could be either Naval Commander Charles Napier (1786-1860) or more likely, as the tribute appears to be posthumous, General sir Charles Napier (1782-1853), who achieved significant military victories in the Indian sub-continent.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I am one that bears an illigant name, / And who dare say 'tis not; / I was born one day in Limerick town, / In a neat little mud-built cot.' It was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
Although no date has been included on this broadside, it is known that James Lindsay had premises at 11 King Street between 1860 and 1894. It is, therefore, safe to assume that this sheet was printed during these years. Although published in Glasgow, this broadside clearly has an Irish theme. During the years of industrialisation, the Irish population in Scotland reached record levels as countless thousands travelled in search of work. Broadside producers took advantage of this by publishing traditional Irish ballads and news from 'home', hoping to appeal to the large Irish population. Sadly, it also led to broadsides that fuelled resentments towards the Irish by reducing them to hateful stereotypes.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Of praists we can offer a charmin' variety / Far renowned for lernin' and piety, / Still I'd advance ye, widout impropriety, / Father O'Flynn as the flower of them all.' This sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee and would have cost a penny to buy.
Father O'Flynn's name has a definite Irish origin and the lyrics of the song refer to areas in and the ideals of Ireland. Certainly there was a growing community of Irish immigrants living in the area of Lochee, Dundee, as the Jute mills continued to expand providing a source of employment. It is not clear from this sheet though whether the lyrics were written in Dundee or if they were copied directly from an existing Irish tune.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I'm a man so religious & yet full of trouble, / This world I'm afraid is all squeak and bubble, / In trying to part the wheat from the stubble, / What a row they kick up to be sure'. It is to be sung to the tune of 'What Can the Matter Be?'
The ballad is about the Salvation Army, and the fact that, in England, Salvationists were generally perceived as a 'queer lot of beings'. It must have been published after 1878, when The Christian Mission adopted its new name.
An interesting woodcut depicting a man wearing a large hat with a white bow around his neck decorates the top of the sheet. He looks uncomfortable, standing praying with his toes turned inward. Two women in large bonnets, also praying, are in the background in front of a church, just visible in the distance. It is likely, because of their appearance and demeanour, that they are supposed to be Salvationists.This ballad begins: 'Let us Christian people / For a moment contemplate / On that awful crime at Whifflet / On young Johnny Johnston's fate, / At the age of thirteen, murdered, / All in secret, in a room, / Which had chilled the hearts of thousands / When report spread of his doom.' The sheet was published by William Markham Brown of 3 Davidson Street, Airdrie.
This well-written, charming piece tells the story of 13-year-old Johnny Johnson, who was murdered in Airdrie, for the 'paltry sum of ninepence'. It appears that his body was burned by the culprit, a woman, and she tried to smuggle it in a bundle to Glasgow for disposal. Luckily, a woman saw a boot protruding from the bundle and alerted the authorities. The murderess was caught and Johnny was given a proper burial.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'Attention freens and listen an my tale I'll tell tae ye, / An' when ye hear it I am sure you'll simpathise we me, / Though ance I was as wild a lad as you see in a the toon.' The text surrounding this broadside reads: 'This Popular Song can be had at the Poet's Box / 182 OVERGATE DUNDEE,' This sheet was printed by William Shepherd of the Overgate, Dundee.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'ABERCROMBIE came down like a wolf on the fold, / And his pockets were furnish'd with Devonshire gold'. There is a hand-written note dating this sheet to the 9th July 1832. There is also a woodcut of a well-dressed but merry gentleman straddling a barrel of beer in a cellar.
The Abercrombie mentioned in the first line here, refers to the Right Honourable James Abercrombie, later elevated to Lord Dunfermline. He was the agent of the sixth Duke of Devon (1790-1858), as well as being a speaker in the House of Commons between 1835 and 1839. This further explains his presence here and that of the Duke of Devon. The first line here is a direct quote from Byron's 'Destruction of Sennacherib' where the name 'Abercrombie' reads 'Assyrian' and a comparison is perhaps being drawn here. Broadsides were often used as a vehicle for political satire and comment as they reached such a wide audience.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This ballad begins: 'ABERCROMBIE came down like a wolf on the fold, / And his pockets were furnish'd with Devonshire gold; / And his pale senseless face was as fearful to see, / As the dark troubl'd wave on the deep Galilee.'
The Abercrombie mentioned in the first line here, refers to the Right Honourable James Abercrombie, later elevated to Lord Dunfermline. He was the agent of the sixth Duke of Devon (1790-1858), as well as being a speaker in the House of Commons between 1835 and 1839. This further explains his presence here and that of the Duke of Devon. The first line here is a direct quote from Byron's 'Destruction of Sennacherib' where the name 'Abercrombie' reads 'Assyrian' and a comparison is perhaps being drawn here. Broadsides were often used as a vehicle for political satire and comment as they reached such a wide audience.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1 begins: 'AULD ROBIN he came frae the town, / An' a frighten'd man was he'. The text preceding this reads: 'FROM THE CALEDONIAN MERCURY, AUGUST 4, 1803. / TUNE - "I hae been Courting at a Lass".'
This ballad is a pessimistic account of the determination of Napoleon Bonaparte to conquer Scotland and the lack of action of Scots people to obstruct him. In fact, contemporary Scots fair badly in comparison with William Wallace and Robert Bruce. This allusion to Scottish freedom fighters would suggest that the author may be Scottish. There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which express concerns about a French invasion into Scotland. It would appear that this was an especially worrying time for Scottish society.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.Verse 1 begins: 'The nicht was dismal, dark, and drear, / Nae lichtsome star did e'er appear / To gie the worthy burghers cheer / In Auld Montrose'. The poem is initialled 'R.D.M.' and decorative woodcut borders have been included on the sheet.
The curling pond, situated at the northern end of the mid-links, is just outside the town of Montrose. Curling was a hugely popular winter sport in Scotland, with many of her natural lochens being used to maximum effect. The lochen at Montrose is still in use, but just as a pond now. Altercations with the devil, formed a popular topic in the moral forums on broadsides and there are many examples held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'Across the vast Soudan was borne, / While England bowed her head, / The words which thrilled each British heart, / "Our mighty hero s dead." / With bated breath we heard that praise, / Which buries hope - "too late!" / For honour! General Gordon lived - / For honour met his fate.' Given the subject matter of this ballad, it is likely that the sheet was published around 1885.
This ballad is an elegy dedicated to the memory of General Charles Gordon (1833-85), who was killed by the Mahdi's troops during the siege at Khartoum, in the Sudan, Africa. The song of mourning repeatedly emphasises the sad fact that if only the relief force had arrived slightly sooner, then Gordon's life would have been saved. The author ends his elegy on a note of political intrigue, by mentioning that there are people who shamelessly abandoned Gordon in his hour of need.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verseThis ballad begins: 'Since making songs is all the rage I thought I'd try my hand / And bring before you something new, but you must understand.' It should be sung to its original tune. This sheet was published by the Poet's Box, Glasgow and would have sold for a penny a sheet.
Poet's Boxes are one of the more enigmatic broadside publishers and distributors. The sheets were produced cheaply and quickly by contracted printers and as a result very little information is recorded. It is known from other sheets, however, that poems could be commissioned and new sheets were regularly promoted. This sheet also advertises other printing services, such as calling cards and letterheads as well as offering a postal service for distribution.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'RECITATIVE. / Twas on the spot, in ancient lore oft nam'd, / Where Isis and Osiris once held sway / O'er kings who sleep in pyramidic pride'.
The second ballad begins: 'The cloth was laid in the Vorkhouse hall, / The great coats hung 'gainst the white washed wall'. The sheet was published by J. Sharp of 30 Kent Street, Borough, London. A decorative woodcut had been included down the left side of the sheet.
The first ballad is a memorial to the Right Honourable James Abercrombie, Lord Dunfermline and Speaker of the House of Commons 1835-9. The second details the lot of a young worker in the local work- or poor- house. The two seem unrelated topics, but Abercrombie was an acquaintance of Francis Hurst through their mutual friend the Duke of Devon. Hurst, the son of a draper, became the Chairman of the Board of Guardians for his local workhouse.Verse 1 'DEATH?Fair lady, lay your costly robes aside, / No longer may you glory in your pride; / Take leave of all your carnal vain delight, / I'm come to summons you away tonight.' The poem is prefaced by stern quotes from the bible that include 'She that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth' (Timothy, verse 6) and 'Tremble, ye women that are at ease' (Isaiah).
This ballad is structured as a dialogue between Death and a woman, and is clearly intended for moral instruction. The implication is that the woman has led an extravagant, sinful life, and death has caught her before she has had the chance to reflect and pursue a more Christian lifestyle. The fact that this heavy-handed lesson is aimed specifically at women illustrates the Calvinist, paternalistic, sometimes misogynistic moral codes that prevailed in Scottish society of the time.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I like to meet with dear old pals, / Wherever I may be, / I like a song, a pipe and glass, / And jovial company.' The text preceding it reads: 'NEW YEAR'S SONG 1899 / Written expressly for the Poet's Box / [title] / Copies of this New and Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter Street, Dundee.'
There is a lot of extraneous text carried on this sheet, which is quite unusual for the Dundee Poet's Box. Most of this text is advertising, price details, vendor's address and other songs that are available. Unfortunately, the woodcut shadow does not belong to this sheet, but has been transferred from the sheet which was lying on top of it.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A Blackbird, a Craw, a Swan, and a Lamb / Ae day wi' the Forrester met on the Sands ; / Says the yin to the ither, "the rabbits are thrang ; / "Could we no' get a day to gie them a bang?".' A chain-detail decorative border has been included on the sheet to increase its perceived value.
Broadsides were sold as the cheap and mass entertainment of their day. They were intended to be read out loud to groups of people in pubs, coffee houses and at home. As a result, the stories are often entertaining narratives, which cover topics which would have been instantly recognisable to many sections of the society they were published in. Hunting for birds and rabbits and the mention of crows and swans would probably have endeared this song to the audience quite quickly!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'Darlin' Old Stick' begins: 'My name is bold Morgan M'Carthy, from Trim, / My relations all dead, except one brother Jim'. 'Loch Katrine Water' begins: 'The brave highland chieftains went forth hand in hand, / For to welcome their Queen at the head of their clan'. The author of 'Loch Katrine Water' is given as 'JOHN WILSON, Ballad-Singer', and the poem is dedicated to 'Her Majesty'. The sheet carries no date or publication details.
'Loch Katrine Water' is a poem inspired by Queen Victoria's opening of the Loch Katrine Water Supply Scheme in October 1859. The building of 26 miles of aqueduct and a storage reservoir at Mugdock allowed fresh water from Loch Katrine to be distributed to Glasgow, ending the city's reliance on old wells and reducing the danger from water-borne disease such as cholera. Loch Katrine is also famous as the inspiration for Sir Walter Scott's poem 'The Lady of the Lake'. 'Darlin' Old Stick' mentions 'Cow-bull', or Kabul, which is probably a reference to the British Army's Afghanistan Campaign, and thus dates this broadside to later than 1878, when the Afghanistan Campaign began.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'The Dark-hair'd Girl' begins: 'Oh, my dark-hair'd girl, your ringlets deck / In silken curls your graceful neck; / Your neck is like the swan, and pure as the pearl, / And diamonds are thy eyes, Oh, my dark-hair'd girl.'
'The Moon' begins 'How beautiful and how serene, / Shines, younder, Nidht's resplendent Queen, / Kindly to comfori those who roam, / Aod light the trav'ller to his home!' This broadside was published in Edinburgh, but the name of the publisher has been obscured, and the date of publication has not been given.
Broadsides were generally sold for a penny a sheet. It was usual for just one ballad to appear on each sheet, so this example, which contains two songs and a woodcut illustration, would have represented good value. Broadsides were produced quickly and were not edited as thoroughly as modern newspapers and books, so misprints and spelling errors were common, as is evidenced by verse one of 'The Moon'.The opening lines of these three ballads are: 'Now really, Jane, you're temper is, / So very odd today', 'On the fourteenth day of February, we sailed from the land' and 'Tell me the tales that to me were so dear, / Long, long ago, long, long ago.'
These three separately-titled ballads are collected on one broadside named 'Melodist'. The inclusion of more than one song or report on a broadside was not particularly uncommon, but the presence of a separate umbrella title for the broadside is more unusual, and suggests that this may have been one of a series of broadsides or songsheets entitled 'Melodist', that perhaps included two or three different songs every issue. As there are no publication details or issue numbers on this broadside, however, it is not possible to verify that it was part of a series.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'As I gead oot ae May morning, / Ae morning very early, / There I spied a pretty fair maid, / Lamenting o' her dearie.' Chorus: 'So fare-ye-weel tae Blairgowrie, / Whaur oftimes I've been cheery; / An' fare-ye-weel tae Bromely Brae, / For I hae lost my dearie.'
This broadside was published by the Poet's Box and could be purchased from their premises at 182 Overgate, Dundee, for one penny. Whilst broadsides were often bought from bookstalls or directly from the printer, they were generally sold by street vendors. Also known as patterers or chapmen, they would stand on busy thoroughfares or wander through the streets singing the songs they wished to sell.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This report and ballad begins: 'CAPTAIN / THOMAS GREEN'S / Last farewell to the OCEAN and all the world, who was Execute with two more of his Crew at Leith within the Flood-Mark, 11 April 1705, for Piracie and Murder.' It seems the sheet was published in Edinburgh by someone called 'G.J.'.
Although this broadsheet states that Captain Thomas Green and two of his crew were executed for piracy and murder, these three seamen were in fact victims of judicial murder and mob rule. In a febrile atmosphere of anti-Englishness, officials from the Darien Company and an Edinburgh mob had seized the crewmen from their trading vessel, The Worcester, on a trumped-up act of piracy committed off the coast of Malabar. Executed at Leith among scenes of brutish jubilation, the context for this tragic story is the failure of the Darien Project combined with the secretive machinations of the Union negotiations.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'ALL you that would hear of a merry jest, / Come listen to what I say: / For a Woman to have her Will is best, / and always to bear the Sway.' A note below the title states that this dialogue was to be sung 'To 'its own Proper new Tune'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Illustrated with two woodcuts of a man raising his glass and a woman dressed in her apron, this is a light-hearted ballad that muses on the belief that, for a marriage to succeed, the woman must have full control over what happens in the household. After outlining the thrust of his argument, the writer (most likely a male) then goes on to list a number of domestic episodes to show what works best in a marriage, in order to support his stated argument. Despite this amusing argument that the woman should 'wear the trousers' in a house, women hardly had any rights at all during this era. Consequently, it would be interesting to know what the female readership thought of this broadside.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'ONE Morning as I walk'd / In the gay Time of the Year / When Sporting Nymphs do Frisk about / To drink the Water clear.' The text preceding it reads: 'An / Excellent New Song lately composed / INTITULED / The New way of Pittcathly Well. / Or, The Gentlemans Love to his Mistress. / To the Tune of, Pollwarth on the Green.'
Broadsides catered for a market which had neither television, radio nor magazines. Only a small proportion of the population were literate but due to the way these sheets were distributed a large chunk of the populace gained access to the information contained in them. They were sold cheaply and were intended to be read to a group either in a public house or once stuck to the wall. As a result many of these entertaining songs were produced, but very little was recorded about them.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Now if you'l but stay, I'll tell you the Way, / It's how the Bridegroom ran awa-Man, / his name is John Dinmure he call'd his bride limmer, / his Living is at Ravenshaw-Man, / And he ran, and she ran, and she ran, and he ran, / And from the Brid he's run awa-Man.' The ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'The Race of Sherriff-muir'.
The tale here is of a bridegroom who has run away from his bride on their wedding night without consummating the marriage. It appears that the bridegroom has been tricked into marriage before discovering that the bride's family has no money. The poem is in a fast-paced Scots, with repeated refrains, that complements the frantic pursuit of the bridegroom by his bride and the townspeople.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem begins: 'Upon the Twenty eight of January, Assembl'd our honest folk to breed a Plea / With King George's Forces, / Who would not let them be.' The sheet was printed in Edinburgh in 1720. Although a list of those killed or wounded is promised, none appears on this sheet.
This ballad tells of an uprising which took place on 28th January, 1720, by the tenants of Dysart, against their local landowner, or laird, Pitcairn.  It is the women who are most praised in the piece: 'the Valiant Wives of Dyesart, / They ought to be Esteem'd', / They hasted fast down into the Shoar, / Our VICTAL to Redeem.' Dysart is in Fife, near Kirkcaldy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside contains two separate ballads. The opening line of the first ballad reads: 'Bonnie May to the ewe buchts is gane'. A 'ewe bucht' is a sheep pen. The opening line of the second ballad reads: 'Long life and good health for bold Parnell and Biggar'. A note below the title of the second ballad states that it should be sung to the tune of 'The Priest and his Boots'.
This broadside contains an incongruous mix of ballads. The first is dedicated to celebrating the breathtaking beauty of a Scottish country lass, who is represented as being completely in tune with nature. The second ballad, however, is a political song supporting Home Rule for Ireland and, as such, eulogises the leader of the Home Rule Movement, Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-91), and his predecessor, Joseph Biggar. This second ballad would most likely have been published some time between 1880 (the year Parnell was elected leader of the Irish Party) and 1891.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Bonnie Mary in the ewe buchts is gane / To milk her father's ewes, / And aye as she sang her bonnie voice it rung / Right over the top of the knowes.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated. An 'ewe bucht' is a pen for keeping sheep in.
This broadside ballad is dedicated to celebrating the beauty of a country lass. Given the simple theme of a beautiful, young country lass being completely in tune with the nature all around her, the ballad was probably written during the Romantic era, in the latter part of the eighteenth century. With regard to narrative, the ballad is structured around several episodes that occur as a result of a young gentleman's infatuation with the young woman. Many broadsides such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: ''Twas Just as the sun sank down at the gloamin', / The west sky was bright with his soft setting beam; / I heard the sad song of a poor lonely woman, / As she rocked to and fro, by the Clyde's noble stream.'
This touching and heartfelt ballad is from the point of view of a mother who has received word that her son is dead. It appears that he was fighting in the Crimean War (1854-6), and was killed during the bombardment of Odessa. She is also grieving for her daughter, who died of a broken heart following the departure of her sweetheart - who is also fighting in the war. This ballad not only conveys the woman's tremendous sense of loss, it also highlights the futility of war and its full impact on the individuals involved.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'SAYS temperate Tam, the man of God, / The Disciple of Peace, / The Expounder of the holy word, / The Patriot's Babe of Grace, - ' Verse 2 'Says temperate Tam to silly Jack, / "These oaths are all a sham, / But, lest your conscience it should ache, / We'll soothe it with a dram."' No publication details are printed on the sheet, but a handwritten annotation has added '29 January 1835'.
This ballad appears to be a satire on the Temperance Movement. The word 'oaths' in verse 2 is probably a reference to the pledge signed in 1832 by a working class man from Preston, Joseph Livesy, and seven companions. The pledge stated that they would never drink alcohol again. The idea attracted other groups of working men, and in 1835 the British Association for the Promotion of Temperance was formed. The pledge became an important part of the Movement, but many early signatories interpreted it as referring only to spirit and continued to drink beer and wine. This hypocrisy forms the basis of the 'Epigram on Jock an' Tam'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My father was an Irishman, / Born in sweet Kilkenny, / My mother was in England born, / In Linconshire so funny'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Glasgow, and cost a penny.
This song of unity is about a man who has an English Mother and an Irish father, conceived on Scottish soil, but who was born at sea, on the way from Scotland to Ireland. It emphasises the interdependence of the three nations, exemplified in these lines from the final verse: 'May . . .The shamrock, rose and thistle too, Be blended all together'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name is Duncan Campbell, from the shire of Argyle ; / I've travelled this country for many a long mile ; / I have travelled through England and Ireland and a', / And the name I go under is bold Erin-go-Bragh.' The sheet is undated and no publication details are given. A woodcut of a man, of Victorian appearance, adorns the top of the sheet.
For a long time in Scotland there was strong prejudice against Highlanders and Irishmen. Duncan Campbell is a Highland Scot, from Argyllshire, who, in Edinburgh, is mistaken for an Irishman. On account of this shared persecution, Campbell identifies with the Irish, and goes by the name 'Erin-go-bragh', which is a battlecry meaning 'Ireland Forever'. He ends up striking an indolent policeman and leaves the central belt and its prejudice.
This song was written in the nineteenth century, and the mention of the police puts it post-1829, when the 'Peelers' were first established.This ballad begins: 'Good evening, my friends, I'll have you to know / I went to a circus a short time ago ; / When in my box, gazing all about, / Some fellow by my side like a bear shouted out--- / Look where she goes, / My own Sophia, / Swinging, by Jove, / On the daring slack wire.' It was published on April 4th 1874.
The circus was very popular in late-Victorian times, and several songs appeared glorifying the various performers' exploits. This song, dedicated to Sophia, the tightrope walker, or 'funambulist', is very much of its time. Another, very famous circus-related song, is 'The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze', which was also written in the 1870s.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As evening dashed on the western shore, / Caledonia stood perched on the waves of the Clyde; / Her arms wide extended she raised with devotion, / "My poor bleeding country" she vehemently cried'.
The 'Battle of Bonnymuir' occurred on 5th April 1820 near Bonnybridge, and was only one chapter in the 'Radical War'. At Bonnymuir, 19 Radicals were arrested and transported for conspiracy, treason and armed insurrection. The Radicals were campaigning for, amongst other economic and social changes, a wider enfranchisement of the population - this was eventually procured under the 1832 Reform Act. Another ballad entitled 'Bonnymuir' was written by a participant in the 1820 rising, Allan Barbour Murchie, who was imprisoned at Stirling Castle, along with 19 others. He was eventually transported and lived the rest of his life in Australia.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'There's ne'er a nook in a' the land, / Victoria rules sae weel.' Above the title a woodcut illustration of an ivy-covered, brick folly, containing a wooden bench, has been included. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of King Street, Glasgow.
James Lindsay was a prolific broadside producer and many of his sheets are contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Most of them carry a woodcut illustration, although they vary greatly in quality and sophistication. Often on his sheets, short lyrics or flimsy content were compensated for by an elaborate illustration. Lindsay was probably aware that these pictures increased the perceived value.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'When first in Glasgow I arrived, the truth I will unfold, / I had a pocketbook with me, well filled with notes and gold'. A woodcut of a black woman carrying a basket and wearing European dress illustrates the top of the sheet. She is in a tropical setting as there is a palm tree behind her.
Not unusually, the woodcut used here bears no relation to the sheet's subject matter, the girl in question is dark haired, not dark skinned, and the tale is set in Glasgow, not the Pacific! The ballad is about a man who meets a pretty, but untrustworthy, girl. After handing over a forged note given to him by the girl, he is arrested and charged. This story is very similar to the traditional song 'The Black Velvet Band'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye braw decenent women I?ll sing ye a song, / Of the wit of the auld and the pride of the young'. There are no further details attached to this publication.
There are many sheets contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which are aimed at or detail the lives of servants. Although broadsides reached a large audience, their cheap cost and easy street purchase may have made them especially appealing to busy workers.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'In the art of dancing / Greatly I excel, / It has a power entrancing / On this agile swell.' It was originally published in 1866 by the Poet's Box, of 80 London Street, Glasgow, although this address has been crudely obscured. It cost a penny to buy.
A publisher in a different city appears to have 'inherited' the sheet. There is a stamp, near the top right which reads 'J. [?]. OATES, POET'S BOX, OVERGATE, DUNDEE'. The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Now here we're met to tak our glass, / And a' our party-jars suppress, / An' wi' ae mouth a' to confess, / That we like dainty Geordie.' This ballad was sung to the tune of 'Dainty Davie', written by Robert Burns.
This ballad is a boisterous drinking song, satirically dedicated to King George III (b. 1738-1820), who is informally referred to in the song as 'Geordie'. Drinking a toast to kings and queens (Hanoverian or Jacobite) was a highly contentious issue throughout the eighteenth century. The ballad celebrates the longevity of King George, though in a slightly ironic and non-deferential tone, and compares him favourably with Britain's main enemy at the time,  Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821). As the ballad is not openly critical of King George, it would have escaped being censored.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'One night as I sat in a cup of cold water, / Nearly frozen to death by the heat of the sun, / I read in the papers a case of man slaughter / Which caused the salt tears from my poor nose to run.' Below the title we are told that, 'Copies of this popular song can always be had at the POET'S BOX, Overgaie, Dundee'. The text underneath the title also states that the song was written by James Curran (a Glasgow song-writer and parodist), and sung by T. Barrick.
The bizarre lyrics to this ballad verge on the surreal. Supposedly based on the sensational stories that will be appearing in next week's edition of a newspaper called 'Police News', the song is comprised entirely of nonsense verses - though rather dark nonsense, admittedly. It seems likely that the reference to next week's police stories is a joke based on inside knowledge of the local crime scene. The trend for naming the songwriter and singer underneath the sheet's title could indicate that copyright laws had been introduced. It might also suggest that the shift towards music hall entertainment was now taking place.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The bairnies cuddle doon at nicht, / Wi' muckle faucht an' din ; / O, try an' sleep ye waukrife rogues, / Your father's comin' in.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Recitation can always be had at the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate Dundee.'
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The bairnies cuddle doon at nicht, / Wi' muckle faucht an' din; / O, try an' sleep ye waukrife rogues, / Your father's comin' in.' In English, 'muckle faucht' means 'a lot of fighting', and 'waukrife' means 'wakeful'. The sheet was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
This charming song is written from the mother's perspective, as she patiently and tenderly tries to quieten down her rowdy children as they go to bed. Typically, as soon as the father returns home, the children behave. The song ends with the mother's heartfelt wish that God protect the children, even in their old age, 'when their pows be bauld'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'If lassies lo'e their laddies, / They should, like me, confess't, / For every lassie has a laddie / she lo'es aboon the rest- / Who is dearer to her bosom / Whatever be his trade. / And through life I lo'e the laddie / That wears the crook and plaid.'
This tender ballad describes a woman's love for her sweetheart, who is a shepherd. The celebration of a pure, healthy country lifestyle was a common feature not only of the ballads, but also of the work of great Scottish poets like Ramsay, Fergusson and Burns. It was a particular concern in the later eighteenth century as industrialisation and urbanisation increasingly affected the Scottish landscape. However, the shepherd as a symbol of gentleness and humility long predates this era and is found most famously in the bible.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'In the high town of Gala lived auld Peggy Tinlin, / Wha was blessed wi' content, though at times took to grumblin'; / Her calling in life was provisions to hawk, / And David, her cud, bore them a' on his back!' The broadside was published at 190 & 192 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box.
This is a comic ballad in rhyming Scots couplets. The humour is based around a minster who comes to pray for 'David', believing him to be 'Cuddy Peggy's sick husband when 'David' is in fact her horse. The minister's role as community leader has featured in Scottish literature for centuries, sometimes in a heroic light, sometimes as a target of satire. Here the minister is gently ridiculed but ultimately portrayed in a good light, as he laughs 'a' the road hame' at his own mistake.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Come list, ye landsmen unto me, / To tell you the truth I'm bound, / Of what happened me whilst I was at sea'. The text before this reads: 'This most wonderful song came out of the Poet's Box, and can only be had there for the price of One Penny. / AIR - End for End Jack'.
The Poet's Box was a loose business organisation, which enabled poets to published their work quickly and cheaply, even if anonymously. The Poet's Box in Dundee, produced a prolific amount of literature, some of which was copied from other areas, and some of which travelled to other areas itself. Dundee during the nineteenth century enjoyed a busy dockside trade. As a result travelling and shipping feature quite heavily in the local literature.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Little empty cradle treasured now with care, / Though thy precious burden it has fled, / How me miss the locks of curly golden hair; / Peeping from thy tiny snow-white bed' Below the title we are told that 'This popular song can always be had at the Poet's B 182 Overgate, Dundee'.
This melancholic ballad tells the unhappy story of the death of a baby. As you would expect of such a song of mourning, the tone of this ballad is lyrical rather than sentimental - especially in the second verse, when the baby's death is finally revealed. The second verse moves location from the cradle to the grave, and the writer skilfully employs the natural image of the weeping willow to reinforce the pain and grief that exists in this song of lamentation. Many broadside ballads such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'The Cow and the Parson!'  begins: ''Twas near ____ town as stories go, - / (I can't say whether true or no;) / There lived a swain of low degree, / Yet with contentment bless'd and free'. 'The Star of Glengary' begins: 'The red moon is up on the moss-covered mountain, / The hour is at hand when I promised to rove'. The sheet carries no publication details.
'The Cow and the Parson' is a satirical ballad about Jem, an innocent young man who loses his cow and climbs a tree to look for it. From the tree he sees a parson seducing a young woman. The parson, on discovering that he has been spotted, buys Jem's silence with a purse full of gold.  'The Star of Glengary' is quite different in tone. It is a romantic, sentimental tribute from a husband to his wife of many years.
This broadside was probably sold for a penny or a penny and a half. The inclusion of two ballads, and a woodcut illustration, would probably have led to it being considered very good value at the time of its publication. Broadsides usually contained only one song or story and often featured little or no decoration.This ballad begins: 'You married men, I pray, come listen to my lay, / I will tell you the truth if I can; / You will by what I say, if attention you pay, / That a woman is the plague of a man.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for a penny.
In this comic ballad, women are accused in the most disparaging of terms of being the relentless tormentors of man. Although the author redeems himself slighty in the final verse, by suggesting that 'There is nothing through life like a good-tempered wife', all in all he presents a pretty damning portrait of womankind. Women were often vilified in the street literature of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Whilst much of it was presented in a humorous tone, it does highlight the prejudicial and negative attitudes towards women that pervaded society at this time.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'You married men, I pray, come listen to my lay, / I will tell you the truth if I can; / You will by what I say, if attention you pay, / That a woman is the plague of a man.' This sheet was published by James Lindsay of Glasgow.
This ballad appears to be little more than a misogynist rant - although it could be intended as ironic. However, it does at least reveal much about the nature of society at the time, and how women were still tainted with causing the 'the Fall', our banishment from Eden and the subsequent concept of original sin. The anonymous writer does tone down his invective in the last verse, however, when he concedes that a sober wife is acceptable. The advertisement at the bottom of this sheet is especially interesting, as it gives a good illustration of the diversity that a broadside publisher could offer the public.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'One night as I was dandering alang the South Street, / I gead in to the twa brewers my whistle for tae weet; / When I a lassie that I ne'er saw before drew anower her chair, / Saying come awa my lad, an' tak a wee drappie mair.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee. At the foot of the sheet a mail order service for songs is advertised.
This ballad draws on familiar Scottish themes for its story and its humour. It is narrated by a man who is seduced by an attractive woman and by his own weakness for drink, and who is then robbed by the woman after the drink has sent him to sleep. The punchline is that although the woman has stolen his 'siller' or money, she has at least left him ' a wee drappie mair'.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'It was in this town, not far from this spot, / A barber he opened a snug little shop, / He at Birmingham had been for many a year, / And he shav'd all the natives so clean and so clear.' The broadside carries no date, nor any publication details.
This grotesque comic ballad is about a barber who uses a broken, rusty razor on any customers who request a shave on credit. One of the notable aspects of the ballad is its portrayal of an Irish customer, using a transcription of an exaggerated Irish accent and various stereotypical phrases such as 'O, by japers', and referring to the customer as 'Paddy' throughout. Anti-Irish satire and propaganda had been common in British society for many years but probably worsened during the nineteenth century because of the Irish struggle for home rule and increasing numbers of Irish workers coming to Britain. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You've heard about Maculay, and a great New Zealander too, / Who are coming in a hundred years the whole of us to view, / I'll give you my ideas, at least I'll give you some.' The text preceding it reads: 'The Popular Song can be had at the Poet's Box, / Overgate Dundee'. This sheet was printed by William Shepherd also of the Overgate, Dundee.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come saddle your bit neddy and ride your way down, / About a mile and a half to the next burgh town. / There's ane, an auld blacksmith, wi' Janet his wife, / And a queerer old cock ye ne'er seen in yer life.' This sheet was sold by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
The narrator of this ballad mentions many of his friends, such as 'Dominic Davie' and 'Robin the ploughman', singing the praises of each of them. It is a simply structured piece, consisting of ten quatrains with an A-A-B-B rhyming structure. No tune is given, although it would almost certainly have been sung to an old, popular air.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.