This report begins: 'Full copy of the Curious Papers which were found under a flag stone at the General Cleaning of the City, near Burke's house, where you have the names of those who were murdered, and sold by him. Together with the prices, and the sums received for each subject.' This sheet was published by Forbes and Co., Printers, Edinburgh.
Despite the alternative spelling of Burk in the headline, this sensational broadside purports to be a chilling list detailing the list of victims of the notorious murderers William Burke and William Hare. In 1827, these two underworld characters started murdering people for profit. Although the dates and names of the victims are genuine enough, there is no way of knowing if these 'Curious Papers' did in fact belong to Burke, or whether it was just a case of a market-aware printer looking for a subject that would sell numerous broadsides.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first verse reads: 'AT rest on a sofa the --- --- was laid, / Not asleep --- yet a drowziness over him hung ; / Some say that he thought on his bills yet unpaid, / But the notion at this time was certainly wrong.' Unfortunately, no publication details have been included.
This verse appears to recount a resurrectionist's encounter with the devil, during which the devil states 'I came just to tell ye, the doctors are writing, / And thinking to ruin both us and our cause'. Whilst the resurrectionist appears horrified by the spectre in front of him, the devil considers them 'True brothers'. Resurrectionists, also known as body-snatchers, were particularly feared and reviled by eighteenth- and nineteenth-century society. Their crime involved removing bodies from fresh graves and selling them for dissection. The resurrectionist in this verse is obviously plagued by a guilty conscience, which manifests itself in his dreams.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside report begins: 'A Full, True, and Interesting Account of the Serious Rumours at present afloat of Two Fish-Women being missed in Leith within a few days past, and of their bodies having been found hidden in a barrel, -- as also of the apprehension of the suspected individual.'  The sheet was published by George Craig of Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
This broadside purports to report on a chilling murder of two fish-women from Leith, whose bodies were apparently found in a barrel. It could well be, however, that this is just a fictional story that fed on the fears that existed in Edinburgh after the notorious actions of Burke and Hare. Certainly, there are no definite details to prove the truth of the story, with the writer frequently employing doubtful phrases such as 'if true', 'it appears' and 'it is rumoured'. The word 'burking' entered the lexicon around the time that Burke and Hare committed their awful deeds, but, thankfully, has since become a dormant word.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account of that woman who died in Jamaica Street, Edinburgh, on the 3d Feb. 1825, and after being coffined the room was entered by a window, the corpse stolen and the coffin filled with stones; also the apprehension of a resurrection man in Haddington church-yard with the instruments employed for lifting the dead. Likewise an account of the discovery of the body of a man in a trunk, by a porter at Pettycur while carrying it to the steamboat, on Tuesday the 8th Feb. and which had been brought from Dundee on its way to Edinburgh.' It was published by J. Seller of Edinburgh, in 1825.
This broadside reflects the level of concern that existed in 1820s Edinburgh over the practice of resurrectionism, or body-snatching. Some anatomy lecturers, frustrated by laws that allowed only the bodies of certain executed criminals to be donated to medical science, were willing to pay well for corpses that could be used for experiment and demonstration. The practice thus gained popularity among the criminal fraternity. Resurrectionism held a particular horror for many devoutly presbyterian Scots, who believed that to gain salvation their bodies must be buried on hallowed ground.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Riot which took place in Edinburgh on Thursday last ; also of the Hoax played off on a Celebrated Doctor.'
The broadside tells of the riot that took place in Edinburgh on 12 February 1829, when a mob marched to the house of Dr. Robert Knox and demanded justice. Although Dr. Knox was the eminent anatomist who bought corpses at £10 a time from the infamous body-snatchers, Burke and Hare, he was never prosecuted. His career, however, was effectively destroyed. It appears from this riot that the public considered him to be an accomplice - hence the stones thrown at his house. This broadside contains a darkly humorous sting in the tale, as it concludes with a funny story concerning how a local anatomist was persuaded to buy a dead sow to help advance his studies. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'An account of a serious riot which took place in Stirling on Saturday the 19th April, 1823. when two disturbers of the Dead were almost torn to pieces by the populace, and a party of soldiers being brought from the Castle to quell the riot, fired on the mob, when several persons were wounded.'
The riot described in this report apparently came about when the trial of two resurrectionists, or body-snatchers, was halted pro loco et tempore. In Scots Law this phrase refers to a case where the trial is stopped but the prosecution retains the right to bring a fresh indictment against the accused. The 1820s saw mounting concern in Scotland over the theft and sale of newly-buried bodies for anatomical research. The outrage reached its peak in 1828 when William Burke and William Hare were founded to have committed multiple murders in Edinburgh to find fresh subjects for the anatomists.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Reception of WILLIAM HARE, one of the West Port Murderers, at Dumfries, on Friday morning last, on his way to Ireland!' This report was sourced from the 'Edinburgh Evening Courant' of the 9th February 1829 and the sheet would have cost one penny to buy.
This is one article of many held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail the case of the bodysnatchers and murderers William Burke and William Hare. As a result it is also an article which added its opinion to the already huge nineteenth century debate on human dissection. Copying the article from a newspaper was not at all unusual, as newspaper reporters travelled further afield, but the broadside production made the story much more accessible. There were also much more ambiguous copyright laws at this time.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This broadside report begins: 'Full, True and Particular Account of the seizure of the Body of an Old Woman, on Saturday Night, the 8th instant, at the head of Infirmary Street, on its way to Surgeon's Square; with an acconnt of that Horrid and Awful event which took place at Falkirk where a Woman was carried off by three men and supposed to be Burked.' Although no date of publication is included, the subject matter suggests it was probabably printed in the 1830s. The sheet was published by John Campbell of Edinburgh.
Most likely written around the time when Burke and Hare terrorised Edinburgh (c. 1829-30), this broadside report would have scared the public with its dark tales of the 'Resurrectionists' (i.e. grave robbers). The writer sensationally describes an incident whereby a carriage was seized by a suspicious Edinburgh mob near the anatomy theatre, and the body of a 50-year-old woman discovered inside the coach. In this atmosphere of mass hysteria, the word 'burke' gatecrashed its way into the lexicon - and appears in the sub-title at the foot of this broadside. At the time, it could be that this word was a synonym for 'grave robbing'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside news report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Reception of WILLIAM HARE, one of the West Port Murderers, at Dumfries, on Friday morning last, on his way to Ireland!' Although this sheet does not include the name of the publisher, the story was sourced from 'The Edinburgh Evening Courant' of February the 9th, 1829, and cost one penny.
This broadside details the whereabouts of William Hare, whose partner-in-crime, William Burke, had recently been executed for committing a series of murders in their efforts to sell bodies to the Edinburgh Medical School. Although Burke was hanged in Edinburgh before a crowd of around 40,000, Hare was freed after turning King's evidence. Adopting the rather inappropriate name of Mr Black, Hare was forced to take shelter in the jail at Dumfries when a mob threatened his life. The sheet concludes with Hare being smuggled out of the town under a police guard, and left on the road to Carlisle.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This entertaining narrative begins: 'An account of rather a New and Curious Circumstance that took place at Aberdeen . . . between a respectable Lecturer on Anatomy . . . and a party of Sailors'. This story was sourced from the 'Fife Journal' of Thursday 26th February, 1829 and the 'Montrose Review'.
This article makes reference to the Edinburgh case of the bodysnatchers Burke and Hare. As such this article is one of many which featured in the nineteenth-century human dissection debate. There is no grim dead body ending here though, but rather a practical joke. English sailors were forced into the port of Aberdeen by the lack of wind. Here, feeling bored by inaction, they decided to deliver their 'dead' friend to a doctor for the price of three pound. When the doctor re-entered his cellar the 'dead body' miraculously awoke and ran away - with the money of course!
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.Verse 1: 'Who is she, the poor maniac, whose wildly fix'd eyes / Seem a heart overcharg'd to express? - / She weeps not, yet often and deeply she sighs; / She never complains; but silence implies / The composure of settled distress.' This poem was published on 3rd July 1869 by the Poet's Box in Glasgow, priced one penny. At the foot of the sheet it is noted 'The POET is universally admitted to be the cheapest LETTERPRESS PRINTER in the city'. The 'POET' is not named.
This ballad was written in 1796 by the poet Robert Southey (1774-1843). It tells a haunting tale that is more unusual and complex than many featured in broadside ballads. Beginning with an image of Mary as a 'poor maniac', the story then moves back in time to when Mary was a carefree young girl. To settle a wager, she agrees to visit an old abbey on a stormy night, and in so doing discovers that her fiancé Richard is a body-snatcher. Richard is hanged, and Mary's life is ruined.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Let old and young unto my song a while attention pay, / The news I'll tell will please you well, the monster Burke's away. / At the head of Libberton Wynd he finished his career, / There's few, I'm sure, rich or poor, for him would shed a tear.' This broadside carries no publication details. A short news report headlined 'QUEEN-SQUARE' has been pasted on to the sheet beneath the ballad.
The crimes of Burke and Hare inspired a great number of broadsides. As well as numerous accounts of Burke's trial, subsequent detailed confessions and execution, various ballads and poems were written about the case. In this poem, the author describes the crowd at Burke's execution shouting 'Burk him, Burk him.' The crowd were probably suggesting that Burke should have done to him what he did to others. This was almost certainly the first use of the verb 'to burk', meaning to murder or strangle, which subsequently became a quite common phrase.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area, eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering solitary or vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.The first ballad begins: 'Ye people of Scotland give ear to this sad tale, / It will make your hearts burn, and your faces turn pale, / Concerning a deed which has lately been done, / The like was ne'er heard of since the world began.'
The second ballad begins: 'A story, a story I'm going for to tell, / Concerning William Burke that now lies in jail, / A few verses of his cruelty I mean for to sing, / You know he committed the worst of all crimes.' Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the subject matter suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh, in, or around, 1829.
The two ballads included on this broadside both refer to the terrible crimes carried out by William Burke and William Hare. The two bodysnatchers and murderers unleashed a reign of terror in Edinburgh in 1829, through their efforts to provide Edinburgh's cutting-edge medical schools with a conveyor-belt-like supply of fresh corpses. Illustrated with a woodcut of a man in a suitably penitent state, these ballads spare no detail in their graphic descriptions of the despicable crimes perpetrated by Burke and Hare.Verse 1 begins: 'People of Scotland give an ear in this sad tale, / It will make your hearts burn, and your faces turn pale, / Concerning a deed which has lately been done, / The like was ne'er heard of since the world begun.'
There are many sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover the murders and trials of the Williams Burke and Hare. Their content would suggest that there was great outrage and horror felt by the inhabitants of Edinburgh about the nature and details of these crimes. It is curious to note that although Hare confessed to his part in the crimes, he turned King's Witness and so was immune from prosecution. As a result, in the literature of the time, the murders are referred to as Burke's! There is also very little mention made of the surgeons who bought the bodies, despite the fact that they suffered attacks and abuse in Edinburgh at the time.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye people of this nation, come listen unto me, / To young and old I will unfold this horrid trudge'. The woodcut, included above the title, depicts two men, one is possibly a boy, building a scarecrow in a field. There are no publication details attached to this sheet.
It is not all that unusual for the woodcut illustration to be unrelated to the story it is sold with. Woodcut blocks were expensive to buy and so recoup the outlay they were printed on as many sheets as possible. Its inclusion would have increased the perceived value of the sheet. The depiction of the two men, however, may have added another dimension of understanding to this sheet about William Burke. Burke and was convicted of serial murder, in and around Edinburgh's Canongate area, so that he could profit by selling the bodies for medical dissection. His accomplice, Hare, on the other hand, escaped punishment and Burke was hanged on 28th January 1829 for his crimes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime ballad begins: 'Come all you resurrection men, I pray you now beware, / You see what has happened William Burke, and likewise William Hare. / Hare he help a lodging house it was in the West Port, / Where all kinds of travellers unto it did resort.' Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the subject matter suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh, in, or around, 1829. The ballad was written by John Logan, whose name is included after the last line. Below the ballad is a clipping regarding what course of action was taken against Dr Knox, the official who purchased the bodies from Burke and Hare.
Illustrated with a woodcut of William Hare, the writer of this ballad spares no details in describing to his audience the terrible crimes perpetrated by William Burke and William Hare. Edinburgh experienced a brief reign of terror in 1829, when these two bodysnatchers decided that murdering people would help to increase the number of  payments they received from Dr Knox, of Edinburgh's Anatomy School. As highlighted in the small report underneath the ballad, the Edinburgh populace considered Dr Knox to be almost as guilty as Burke and Hare, and a mob stoned Dr Knox's house. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes many broadsides relating to Burke and Hare.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account, of the Trial and Sentence of Thomas Stevenson, alias Hodge, who is to be Banished for Seven years beyond the Seas, for Wickedly and feloniously Stealing Dead Bodies, particularly that of Janet Moir, from the Churchyard of Larbert, in Stirlingshire, in March last, and for violating the Sepulchres of the dead.' The sheet was published by Robert Forrest in June 1823 and cost a penny.
Stevenson had been previously convicted of violating graves, under the name of Hodge, and had been very badly treated by the people of Linlithgow afterward. It is interesting to note that the judge reprimands the people, saying it is not for them to take the law into their own hands. It is strange that the sheet does not mention what drove Stevenson to commit the crimes or who Janet Moir was. He was sentenced to seven years' transportation.
It is interesting to note that this incident took place a few years before the great body-snatchers, Burke and Hare, begun their spree in 1827 and 1828. After the great publicity involving their case, such acts became known as 'burking'.This report begins: 'A full account of the Trial and Sentence of William Burke this day, the West Port Murderers, who is to be executed on Wednesday the 28th January.' The execution was to take place in 1829. Burke's trial was on Christmas Eve, 1828. Unfortunately no publisher is given.
Burke, together with his accomplice William Hare, has become a famous part of Edinburgh's gruesome past. They were murderers, who sold cadavers to the medical school. Burke was convicted of three murders, and was tried alongside his partner, Helen McDougall. McDougall, Hare and his wife, were not charged, although the National Library of Scotland holds some broadsides telling of the public's anger towards them as they tried to lead normal lives after the trial.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An account of the trial and Sentence of Andrew Ewart, for the murder of Henry Pennycook, in the Church yard of Libberton on the 4th December last and who is to be executed at Edinburgh on the 12th day of March next.' '1828' is handwritten on the sheet in two places.
Despite the jury's recommendation of mercy, Andrew Ewart was sentenced to be executed for the murder of his friend Henry Pennycook (or Pennycuick). This broadside covers the events which led up to Pennycook's death. After an evening in the watch-house of Liberton churchyard, and much talk of body-snatching, Ewart unwittingly mistook his friend for a graverobber and fired a fatal shot. On discovering he had fatally wounded his friend, Ewart was devastated. It is important to remember that the grisly act of body-snatching was a very real concern for people at this time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of WILLIAM BURKE and HELEN M'DOUGALL, his reputed wife, who were tried before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 24th December, 1828'.
William Burke and his partner Helen MacDougall, worked with two accomplices, William Hare and his wife, to lure people to their death. They then sold the body on to medical practitioners for dissection. They had committed sixteen murders when they were caught, mainly of vulnerable people. Burke was eventually convicted and ordered to hang, but only because his accomplice turned King's Evidence and therefore survived. The accusation against MacDougall was not proven.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Verse 1 begins: 'What is our land at last come to? / Our ancestors would weep'. This song was written by Wag Phil to the tune 'MacPherson's Farewell'. There is a small introduction to the piece and a woodcut of 'Jamie', a Burke and Hare victim. This illustration could be bought from W. Smith of 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh. The Editor talks about himself but does not give his names. There are also no publication details included.
This text is one of many which featured in the Victorian debate over human dissection in the name of medical advance. Although socially frowned upon, the medical establishment was desperate for bodies to work on so that biological processes to could be better understood. This resulted in the new crime of 'body snatching' where cadavers were dug out of fresh graves and sold illicitly to doctors. This eventually lead to the infamous case of Burke and Hare who began to murder people, to sell their bodies for profit.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.Following on from the title, the prologue continues: 'On ascertaining the Way and Manner her son had been basely murdered in the [W]est Port, by WILLIAM BURKE and WILLIAM HARE.' The ballad begins: 'O my son, why did you wander, / Why so far away from home'. Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the subject matter suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh, in 1829. To the left of the ballad is an eye-witness report, describing how a Glasgow mob pelted William Hare's wife with stones.
Although the headline to this sheet claims that the ballad was written by the mother of one of Burke and Hare's victims, it is far more likely to have been written by a broadside scribe. As highlighted in the adjoining story to this ballad, the public was in a vengeful mood at this time, with mob hysteria occurring in several Scottish cities - though especially so in Edinburgh. Continuing the female perspective, the adjacent news story tells of how Mrs Hare, after escaping the rage of the mob, eventually caught a steam-ship back to her native Ireland, but ended up living the cursed life of a wandering outcast.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This crime report begins: 'The following columns will be found to contain the substance of all the horrid atrocities committed by Burke and his associates, and of all the circumstances connected with that tragical affair.' The broadside also contains four captioned woodcuts, depicting Burke, Hare, Burke's common-law wife Helen McDougal, and one of their victims, 'Daft Jamie'. The sheet cost threepence to buy, and was published by Glass of 9 South Niddry Street, Edinburgh.
Broadsides were generally priced at one penny. The higher charge for this sheet was probably justified by the considerable length of its text and the fact that its woodcut portraits appear to have been custom-made. This attention to detail, and the apparent willingness of people to pay more for it, also reflects the huge interest there was in the case of Burke and Hare. Anatomical dissection was regarded by many as an unnatural, ungodly practice, and when it was discovered that Burke and Hare had been inspired to multiple murder by the demands of anatomists for bodies, the outcry in Edinburgh was great.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area, eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering solitary or vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This ballad is prefaced by a woodcut depicting a crest and someone in a coffin, and a verse which reads: 'Poor Jamie ne'er was shrowded, / But in a Tea-chest crowded; / With Coffin ne'er connected, / But by the knife dissected.' Verse 1 reads: 'DARK, dark and drizzly was the night, / And lang lang after gloamin', / When Jamie's Mother lonely sat/ His absence sair bemoanin'.' The poem was written by A. Gowrie. The broadside was published by W. Smith of No. 3  Bristo Port, Edinburgh.
Jamie Wilson, or 'Daft Jamie', was the penultimate victim of the notorious murderers Burke and Hare, who killed sixteen times on the streets of Edinburgh to provide the anatomist Robert Knox with bodies for medical research. Daft Jamie's murder is commonly believed to have been the pair's undoing. Whereas Burke and Hare had previously chosen mainly solitary and elderly victims, Jamie was a well-known character in Edinburgh's Old Town, and was immediately missed by his widowed mother. His corpse, when unveiled at a medical demonstration, was recognised by several of the participating students.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The ballad begins: 'Good people all give ear to what I say, / 'Twill make your very blood run cold, / And fill you with dread dismay, / When the truth to you I've told.' This broadside was priced at one penny. The sheet has had two related articles pasted to it. One is an advertisement for a full report of the trial of William Burke and Helen McDougal, for the murder of Margery Campbell. The other is a short report from the Edinburgh Evening Post claiming that 'investigation into the late criminal transactions has been renewed'.
The writer of this ballad has tried to imagine the sort of nightmares that might have haunted Hare in the aftermath of his crimes. Vivid images, of Hare imagining the flesh falling off one if his victims, or of another vctim appearing to him as an angel, contribute to a poem that depicts Hare as a man who will be constantly  tormented by his deeds until his death and inevitable damnation. This is just one of many broadsides that were produced in reaction to the case of Burke and Hare.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area, eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering solitary or vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This crime report begins: 'Awful Death and Confession of HARE, the notorious associate of Burke, the West Port murderer, who died in the parish of Orrey, County of Tyrone, on Saturday, the 29th May, 1841.' This sheet was published by G. Whitelaw.
Hare, equally as guilty as his accomplice Burke, escaped punishment by turning King's Evidence in return for his freedom. His fate was not quite as golden as promised, however. He travelled around Scotland for awhile but the case was so well known and caused such outrage, that there were riots when appeared. He is then believed to have lived in poverty in London for some time and he may even actually have died there possibly as late as 1860, rather than in his native Ireland in 1841.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This sensationalist report begins: 'An Account of a most Extraordinary circumstance that took place on Friday night, the 31st October 1828, in a House in the West Port, Edinburgh, where an old Woman of the name of Campbell is supposed to have been Murdered, and her Body Sold to a Medical Doctor.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh, on the 3rd of November, 1828 and sold for a penny.
This broadside provides an interesting contemporary report of the last murder committed by the infamous body-snatchers Burke and Hare. As it went to press, police had the men in detention and were beginning to uncover the awful extent of their crimes. This victim's name was Mary Campbell, but she was also known as Mary Docherty. Burke was hanged; the others involved escaped capital punishment.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full and Wonderful Narrative of the Extraordinary Sufferings of Mrs JANE TOMKINSON, who fell into a Trance, and was buried alive, a short time ago, in this vicinity--her observations and feelings--her extraordinary escape from the Grave--her wonderful recovery in the Dissecting-Room, in consequence of a galvanic experiment, and happy return to her family and friends.---All as related by Herself.' Published in Edinburgh by James Mathewson, this report sold for a penny.
Jane Tomkinson was presumed dead, but, although unable to move or speak, she was still fully conscious. She tells how she was at her own funeral and entombed then was stolen away by body-snatchers, who sold her to the medical school for students to practice on. There they performed some painful-sounding galvanic experiments; experiments using electricity, and even began making an incision in her chest. At that moment she came out of her trance and all were astounded.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murders, who worked in Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming a local living legend. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This report begins: 'An account of the Last Moments and Execution of William Burke, at Edinburgh, for the West Post Murders. This day, Wednesday 28th Jan. 1829. William Burke underwent the last sentence of the law, for the murder of Mrs Docherty, one of the victims of the West Port Tragedies.' The broadside does not carry the name of the publisher or location of publication.
William Burke and William Hare are among the most notorious criminals in Scotland's history. Having moved to Scotland from Ireland to work as labourers on the Grand Union canal, they began grave-robbing to provide anatomy lecturers with bodies for medical research and demonstration. Subsequently they turned to murder to acquire bodies, and were arrested only after they had killed sixteen times. Hare was spared the gallows by agreeing to give evidence against Burke, whose execution is described vividly in this broadside. The infamy of the case ensured that many broadsides covering it were produced, and the National Library holds several different examples.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'A full, true and particular account of the narrow escape of a Gentleman from a Den in the Grass-market, who was nearly Burked by a crew of noted characters, well known in this city, he having been seized by the throat by a man and a number of women, who, after losing his coat-tails, and being severely wounded, with difficulty made his escape - (Told by Himself)'.
The term 'burked' refers to being murdered for the purposes of dissection. To avoid the presence of suspicious wounds, and to leave the body intact, the preferred method used by those committing the burking was suffocation. The term came into being after the notorious case of William Burke and William Hare in the early nineteenth-century. Both men engineered a scheme whereby they supplied fresh bodies for dissection using murderous means. Although William Burke was hanged for his crimes, William Hare agreed to appear as a King's Witness in return for his freedom.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This crime report begins: 'Gude people all, I pray give ear, to what I now do say, / And buy a copy o' this Poem before I gang away; / It can't now but melt the hardest heart, whoe'er d' read it o'er, / How poor daft Jamie met his death, the like was ne'er before'. The poem was written by J.P. and the woodcut at the top reads 'Alas! Jamie's Pickled'. This second edition sheet was published by W. Smith of 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh.
Burke and Hare were Irish body-snatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Poor Daft Jamie, (James Wilson) was a local West Port character, who entertained the children of the area with stories and jokes. Jamie was just eighteen when he was murdered and Burke and Hare received £10 for the body. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This report begins: 'Correct Account of THE RIOTS concerning Stealing Dead Bodies, in different parts of Glasgow On Saturday and Sunday, the 1st and 2d of March, 1823, with an account of the Dead Bodies, and the Heads, Limbs & pieces of Human Bodies Found.' This sheet was printed by Mayne & Co. who are known to have had premises in Glasgow around this time. A woodcut representing two coffins adorns the top of the sheet.
Before the Anatomy Act of 1832 the only legal way for a surgeon to obtain a cadaver for demonstration in lectures was to claim those of executed murderers. Because cases like this highlighted the desperate need for bodies, after 1832 surgeons were permitted to use bodies of people who had died in workhouses, providing no-one claimed them within 48 hours of death. This broadside illustrates the lengths doctors would go to to get a body, and the resultant public outrage.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, the introductory text continues: 'late of Portsburgh, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on the 28th January, 1829, for Murder, and his body given for Public Dissection.' The ballad itself begins: 'Good people all, both great and small, / I pray you lend an ear, / Unto these lines That I have penn'd, / Which quickly you shall hear.' Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, the subject matter suggests that it was almost certainly published in Edinburgh, in January 1829.
The writer of this ballad sensationally claims to have heard this condemned cell confession of William Burke's, while walking past the jail at Calton Hill, in Edinburgh. A rather tall tale, it is far more likely that the writer caught his amazing 'scoop' by unleashing his imagination on what Burke might be thinking, prior to his execution. Illustrated with a foreboding woodcut of William Burke, in the ballad 'Burke' admits his guilt and begs the ultimate judge, God, to show him mercy. As religion dominated Scottish life at this time, the fate of what would happen to the eternal soul was of utmost importance. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains many broadsides that report on the terrible crimes carried out by Burke and Hare.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'CONFESSIONS MADE BY William Burke. Now under Sentence of Death, in the Calton Jail, for the Horrid Murder of Mrs Campbell, frankly detailing several other atrocious Murders, in which he was concerned along with Hare . . . Extracted from the Caledonian Mercury, 5th January, 1829.' The broadside also contains a poem describing Burke's 'Confessions, Lamentations, and Reflections'. The sheet was priced at one penny.
William Burke is known to have made two detailed confessions between his trial in December 1828 and his execution, and a transcription of one of these confessions is reproduced on this broadside. Burke insists that his only accomplice was Hare. Burke's common-law wife, Helen McDougal, was tried with him for one of the murders, but was released on a 'not proven' verdict. Burke was convicted of this and two other murders, but in his subsequent confessions he admitted that he and Hare had carried out sixteen killings in total.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area, eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering solitary or vulnerable people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This broadside report begins: 'A particular Account of the Extraordinary Demolition of an Anatomical Theatre, at Aberdeen, on Monday last, the 19th December, 1831, which was Burnt and erazed to the ground, in consequence of the sagacity of a Dog.' The sheet was printed in 1831 by Menzies of Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
This broadside tells of how a mob stormed an anatomical theatre in Aberdeen, following the discovery of a body outside its doors. As news spread of the crimes committed by Burke and Hare in Edinburgh, suspicion of medical schools and surgeons became rife. Indeed, as can be seen from the title of this broadside, the words 'Burking' and 'Burke' even entered the lexicon, thus immortalising the villains. Given that the bodies of executed prisoners were sent to medical schools for dissection, it is interesting to note that people held such an ambiguous attitude towards medical schools and anatomical theatres.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Execution, Confession, and a list of all the Horrid Murders committed by Burke, also the decision of Hare's Case / List of the 16 Murders committed by Burke'. Two woodcuts, one of Burke on the left and one of Hare on the right have been included. The bottom of the sheet also carries a woodcut of Daft or Poor Jamie, one of their victims. The sheet was published by Glass of 9 South Niddry Street, Edinburgh.
The case of the Burke and Hare murders outraged and disgusted both Edinburgh's and Scotland's citizens. There are many, many sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover the case and its details. This sheet deals mainly with the grimly compelling details of the murders committed. This sheet forms part of the debate which raged throughout Scottish Victorian society over the morality of human dissection.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This account begins: 'An Account of the most Horrid and Unchristian Actions of the Grave Makers in Edinburgh, their Raising and Selling of the Dead, abhorred by Turks and Heathens, found out in this present Year 1711, in the month of May.'
The rest of the broadside is written in verse. This is a very early warning about a practice that was to become increasingly common in the late eighteenth century, that of grave robbing to provide fresh cadavers for dissection. Until the Anatomy Act of 1832 the only legal way for a surgeon to get a cadaver was to claim those of executed murderers. After 1832 surgeons were permitted to use bodies of people who had died in workhouses, providing no-one claimed them within 48 hours of death.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime account begins: 'Glasgow, May 1st, 1823.?This morning, another of those disgusting scenes occurred, which produces horror in the minds of the living, and keeps them in anxious suspense concerning the bodies of the departed dead.' It was published by William Carse.
There was a horror throughout the nineteenth century of having one's body dissected. This was inflicted upon those sentenced to execution as a further punishment. Here, the public's emotions are appealed to with the story of a recent death - all very high drama - and the Dempster family's problems having the body buried due to their poverty. This text highlights how contentious the debate on the dissection of human bodies for science was at the time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.