This public notice begins: 'THE LORD PROVOST and MAGISTRATES, aware of the Anxiety of their Fellow -Citizens to make preparations as Time will permit'. This sheet was issued by the Council-Chambers on the 26th July 1822.
This sheet discusses how citizens should dress on the day that royalty visits. White trousers and waistcoat and a blue jacket are suggested as is a St Andrews emblem worn on the side of the hat. From the context of the piece it seems to refer to George IV's visit to Edinburgh in 1822 - the first royal visit for over 150 years. The tour was stage-managed by Sir Walter Scott, who created a kind of false, romantic Scotland, in the vein of his writing style. It is curious to note that these clothing suggestions are only for men and that the presence of women is not even hinted at.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Good people now just pray attend for awhile, / And I'll sing you a song that will cause you to smile, / Some curious facts to you I will tell, / But I can?t tell you yet that Sebastopol fell.' The author of the ballad is named on the sheet as George Billinge. The broadside was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. It is not dated, but was probably published either between 1852 and 1859, or between 1891 and 1894, when Lindsay is known to have had premises at 9 King Street
'The Sebastopol Fashions' is a song mocking Russian lifestyle. It was probably written as anti-Russian propaganda during the Crimean War (1854-56). France and Britain, declared war in an attempt to prevent Russian expansion, as Russia was seeking to control the Dardanelles and Britain's Mediterranean sea routes. Sebastopol, the Russian-held principal city in the area, was besieged and finally fell to the French and British on 11 September 1855. The intentional irony of 'Sebastopol Fashions' is that as a city under siege, Sebastopol would have experienced terrible hardships and shortages, and life there would have been quite unlike the luxurious picture painted by the song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Following on from the title there is a paragraph in which the 'ladies' express their gratitude to fashion, personified as Mr Fashoner (Fashioner). They say '. . . we cannot but acknowledge your kindness . . . These Hopt Petticoats is a very fine invention . . . They are very Airy and ads to our shaps.' Mr Fashioner replies that he can scarce 'shite them out', meaning he can hardly make enough of them. The first line of the poem underneath runs, 'All the inventions that ever was known'. Above the poem is a woodcut print representing the devil producing hooped petticoats.
Hooped petticoats, or farthingles, became popular in the early eighteenth century. The author of this satire takes a very dim view of them, basically calling them the devil's work. Another broadside, entitled 'The Lady's Answer, to the Sev'ral Little Satyres on the Hoop'd Petticoats' explains why the ladies like their farthingles so much, they'd 'rather chuse these huge unwieldy Tails, / Than the too near Incroachments of the Males'!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There's puir wee Johnny Clark, / That Sells the News and Star, / He whistles and he sings, / And he paddles through the glaur'. 'Glaur' is a Scots word used to describe muddy, slippery, and especially icy conditions. The song was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
Johnny Clark is a well-liked paperboy, but his appearance is dreadful. He needs a coat, so his mother makes him a jacket out of his father's old one. Unfortunately, it seems Johnny is scruffy by nature, because the thing he is most excited about is the fact that the pockets can hold a pound of potatoes!
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This report begins: 'Margaret M'Donald, the subject of the following narrative, was born in 1842, of poor, but respectable parents in this town. When she left she was but 13 years of age, her parents died and left her & an older brother, totally unprovided for. Her brother though 5 years older was but an apprentice tailor, and his scanty wages went but a short way in supporting them'.
'Human interest' stories, sometimes touching or heroic, sometimes farcical or bizarre, were less popular than crime reports but were still carried regularly on broadsides. The example shown here is one of the more bizarre stories. It recounts how Margaret McDonald, an orphan, supported herself by assuming the identity of a boy and going into service with a well-off Edinburgh family. Her true gender was uncovered accidentally at her wedding to another woman, a revelation which, according to the author, afforded 'great mirth' to all the wedding guests, if not to the bride.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'A lass lived down by yon burn-braes, / And she was weel provided wi' claes'. At the top of the sheet it mentions that the song was first printed in Chambers's Journal, No. 175, and was written by an old spinster 'as a kind of burlesque of her own habits and history'. The tune is similar to 'The Laird of Cockpen'.
Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, which was called Chambers's Journal after 1854, was a hugely popular nineteenth-century journal of literature, science and the arts. It was founded by Robert Chambers (1802-71) in 1832 and ran until 1938. Cribbing songs and news reports was common practice among broadside publishers looking to make a quick profit, and copyright laws were not so strict then as they are today.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Provock'd at length by such unhumane Spite, / Such sordid Stuff, we're now compelled to write; / And who'd complain, when some so void of Sence, / Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence . . . '
Judging by the title of this light-hearted ballad, it must have been a reply to some previous broadsides that caused offence to the fairer sex. In response, the writer highlights many aspects of male behaviour that show men to be creatures of ridicule. Particularly delightful is the imaginative manner in which the usual epic and heroic metaphors (Hercules) employed in much eighteenth century poetry, are subverted for humorous and satirical effect. The tone and style of this ballad, combined with the use of rhyming couplets, is strongly reminiscent of the writings of poets such as Alexander Pope. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Fy on the Wars that hurri'd Willie from me, / Who to love me just had Sworn, / They made him Captive sure to undo me; / Wo's me he will ne're return. / A Thousand Lowns abroad will fight him; / He from Thousands ne'er will run.' The text preceding it reads: 'An excellent New Song, Much in request'.
This is an interesting glimpse of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scottish society. During this period, first civil and then foreign wars dominated politics. Scots were renowned for travelling abroad both as soldiers and as mercenaries. Here, fears for loved ones are voiced, perhaps a theme that would have been familiar to the audience. There is a further look at this period's attitude towards materialistic finery and fashions, as the lover's dress is described in detail.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Come under my plaidie, the nicht's gaun to fa' ' / Come in frae the cauld blast, the drift and the snaw ; / Come under my plaidie, and sit down beside me, / There's room in't, dear lassie, believe me, for twa!'. To be sung to the tune of Johnnie M'Gill.
Not uncommonly, there are no publication details or dates given here. It is known, however, that the ballad was written by Hector MacNeil (1746-1818) so it certainly dates from the late eighteenth, or early nineteenth century, though published a lot later. The piece is illustrated fairly crudely with a woodcut of a very thin man, wearing tartan trousers and a large billowing tartan scarf, walking against the wind and rain.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'When first in Glasgow I arrived, the truth I will unfold, / I had a pocketbook with me, well filled with notes and gold'. There is a woodcut of a black woman, holding a basket standing in front of a palm tree.
This woodcut can be found on other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. It was quite common for woodcut blocks to be used across a wide range of sheets as they were expensive to create and so had to be used to maximum benefit. The outlay for the block, however, was off-set against the increase in perceived value of the sheet. Not only was it more decorative, but those people who were illiterate and enjoying the sheet read to them, could also derive benefit in the sheet. This image with its exotic palm trees and unusual character would probably have been an attractive purchase.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: TO Edinburgh Town where he did come once, / At first blink he espyed some ones, / Who high upon their snout did wear things, / And at their Luges he saw Gould Ear rings? / At which the man was so amazed, / He in their faces stair'd and gazed? It was to be be sung 'To its own proper Tune'.
'John of Landwart's Dream' is a comical, if by today's standards deeply misogynist, tirade against the clothes and jewellery worn by women. It was apparently inspired by a trip the narrator once took to Edinburgh. The poem is written in a highly energetic Scots, and after the first verse, which acts as a sort of preface, the metre and rhyme schemes change, from rhyming couplets of equal length, to a pattern of three longer, rhyming lines followed by a short fourth, with the short fourth lines rhyming in pairs. This scheme quickens the pace of the poem.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem begins: 'Provok'd at length by such inhumane Spite, / Such sordid Stuff, we're now compell'd to write; / And who'd contain, when some so void of Sense, / Attempt to ridicule that sacred Fence'.
This piece is replying to satirical broadsides such as 'A New Proclamation Concerning Farthingles, or Old Mr Fashoner Shiting Hopt-piticoats', which is also in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Hooped petticoats became fashionable early in the eighteenth century and it is likely that this sheet dates from around that time. The author cleverly turns the argument around by pointing out how the men's fashion is hardly any better, with ''wigs of such an antique Size' and 'Hats that seem design'd for Hercules'!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Judge not a man by the cost of his clothing, / Unheeding the life-path he may pursue; / Or oft you'll admire a heart that needs loathing, / And fail to give honour where honour is due. / The palm may be hard, and fingers stiff jointed, / The coat may be tatter'd, the cheek worn with tears, / But greater than kings are labour's anointed, / And you can't judge a man by the coat that he wears.'
This broadside was published by the Poet's Box, Glasgow, and could be purchased for one penny. Below the song, the services of the 'Poet' - that is, the Poet's Box - are advertised and offered 'on the most moderate terms'. There was a Poet's Box in most of Scotland's major towns. Apart from publishing their 'stock' items, they also accepted commissions and provided struggling authors with the opportunity to have their work published cheaply.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Resolved that I wid leave the plough, / I said tae farmer Brown; / The money that I've worked for, / Be kind as put it down. / In Glesca' town at half-past three, / This very day I mean tae be; / I've been ower lang a gawkie in the country.' The ballad was published by the Poet's Box, 224 Overgate, Dundee. The reference to a railway line into Glasgow dates this ballad to 1831 at the earliest.
This ballad is based around a common subject in Scottish writing in the eighteenth and especially nineteenth centuries, the idea that cities were dangerous and immoral places compared to the countryside. This theme was used, often humorously, by the famous Ayrshire writers Robert Burns and John Galt. The 'Kilmarnock Bonnet' of the title is a famous piece of headgear, dating back at least to 1647, when the 'Kilmarnock Corporation of Bonnet Makers' was founded.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Come all you young ladies and listen awhile, / I'll sing you a song that will cause you to smile'. There are no details attached to this publication, although 'answers' were usually published in reply to a letter or text and so can often be found in pairs. The partner of this is, unfortunately, untraceable. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
Women's fashions are a popular topic amongst broadside authors, especially criticising or satirising them. Any sort of hooped skirt meant that men had restricted access to a woman's body, which often hindered his amorous intent. A greater concern for moralists was that crinolines and other hooped skirts tended to tip up and show more of the lady's leg than was proper. Farthingales were another fashion which caused outrage.