Verse 1: 'One evening as I walk'd by Clyde's banks so gay ; / It was for recreation that way I did stray ; / A fair maid I heard singing her own mournful lay / Saying, the lad I lo'e dearly's gane noo far away.' No publication details have been given here, although it is possible these were on the other half of the sheet, which seems to have been torn off.
Jamie is a soldier in the 'Forty-and-Two', which is the 42nd Highland Regiment, more commonly known today as the Black Watch. The mention that Jamie has been posted to the (West) Indies, in the final verse, makes it likely that the song was composed in the late eighteenth century. The 42nd went on expedition there in 1793, for over three years. They captured the islands of St Lucia and St Vincent.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I am a noble hero, / By birth I am enslaved, / Near to the town of Wexford, / There dwells a comely maid, / She is fairer than Diana, / She is free from earthly pride, / And, this lovely maid, her dwelling place, / Is near the Slaney side.' This broadside was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
The River Slaney, which divides County Wexford in Ireland diagonally in two, is steeped in mythology and historical significance. Its name is derived from a mythic chieftain named Slainghe, and its waters have been navigated by Christian missionaries, Norse invaders and Normans in turn. Perhaps because of the area's rich heritage, the author of this ballad has cast his lovers in mythological terms. Like the 'noble heroes' in many myths, the narrator of the ballad is caught in an apparently endless quest to win the hand of his love.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside feature begins: 'People will kiss, yet not one in a hundred years knows how to extract bliss from lovely lips, any more than he knows how to make diamonds from charcoal. And yet it is easy, at least for us. First know whom you are going to kiss.' Although no publication date is included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published, or supplied, by 'L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee'.
This whimsical and light-hearted ballad considers the often fraught subject of how to kiss properly. It appeared in the diary of one Joseph J. Corneille, from Louisiana in 1868. He seems to have been something of an expert in this field. Corneille starts off by describing the mechanics of the action, before concluding with the heavenly bliss that a properly performed - and aimed - kiss can bring forth. Although written to amuse its audience, the writer also offers some useful tips into how the individual might improve his or her kissing performance. While modern-day readers might find this broadside rather quaint, it should be remembered that the content is not that different from the features that regularly appear in today's magazines for young teenagers.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Come all you young females I pray you attend, / Unto these few lines that I have here pen'd; / I'll tell you the hardships I did undergo, / With my bonny lass called Sally Munro, / James Dixon's my name, I'm a blacksmith by [t]rade / In the town of Ayr I was born and bred, / From that unto Belfast I lately did go, / There I got acquainted with Sally Munro.' The sheet carries no publication details.
'Sally Munro' is narrated by a Scotsman whose bride dies when the ship taking them to Canada sinks. The National Library of Scotland holds several broadside ballads on the same theme, reflecting the sad fact that this was not an uncommon event. Emigration from the Scottish Highlands and Ireland to North America ran at a high level in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, particularly at times of crop failure and poverty. Frequently the ships crossing the Atlantic were overcrowded and in bad repair, and this inevitably led to ships sinking and many lives being lost.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all you young females I pray you attend, / Unto these few lines that I have here pen'd; / I'll tell you the hardships I did undergo, / With my bonny lass named Sally Munro, / James Dixon's my name, I'm a blacksmith by trade / In the town of Ayr I was born and bred, / From that unto Belfast I lately did go, / There I got acquainted with Sally Munro.' The broadside carries no publication details.
The National Library holds more than one broadside featuring 'Sally Munro', which suggests that it was quite a popular song. This is unsurprising, as it contains some of the more common themes in broadside ballads. The story is of a Scotsman who is separated from the Irish girl he loves, but is finally reunited with her and marries her, only to lose her again when the ship they are emigrating on sinks, and Sally is drowned. Love songs were always popular with broadside audiences, and the themes of separation and tragedy often accompanied them, as in this case. In addition, the Irish aspect of the song probably made 'Sally Munro' more popular, as Lowland Scotland had a high Irish immigrant population.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'One dark and stormy night / The snow lay on the ground / A sailor boy stood on the quay / His ship was out ward bound . . . ' Below the title, we are told that this ballad 'Can be had at the Poet's Box, Dundee', and that it costs one penny.
This melancholic ballad tells the story of a departing sailor and his young sweetheart. The 'dark and stormy' night-time setting for their fond farewell at the harbour appears to be full of portent. The foreboding imagery employed in the ballad is shown to be prophetic, and the ship returns to port flying its flag at half-mast. Tragically, the sailor and his sweetheart were star-crossed lovers.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: ?A sailor courted a farmer?s daughter / that lived convenient to the Isle of man / But mark good people what followed after / a long time courting against their will?. There is no date or place of publication.
This ballad tells the story of a sailor who decides get married ?beneath his station? to a farmer?s daughter in spite of his mother?s disapproval.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: ''Twas in the season of the year, / When all things gay and light appear, / That Colin with his morning ray, / Arose and sung the rural lay, / Of Nanny's charms the Shepherd sung, / The hills and dales with Nanny rung / While Roslin Castle heard the swain, / And echo'd back the cheerful strain.' The broadside carries no publication details.
'Roslin Castle' is thought to have been written by Richard Hewitt of Cumberland (d.1764), secretary to the blind Scottish poet Thomas Blacklock (1721-91). It was a popular song, reproduced on many broadsides, and was commonly sung to an old Scottish pipe air known as 'The House of Glamis'. As a setting for a love song, Roslin Castle has an appropriate air of romance. Now a partial ruin, the fourteenth-century castle is sited spectacularly on a rocky promontory above the River Esk, in Midlothian.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Young Robin, my sweetheart, is handsome and fair, / His cheeks are fresh coloured and raven his hair, / My Robin is nimble and light on his feet, / To me he's the dearest I ever did meet, / But Robin's so shy: / 'Tis very distressing that Robin's so shy.' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and was priced at one penny. It was published  on Saturday, 9th March 1867, by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
This ballad is narrated by a young girl in praise of her gentle, handsome, impeccably-mannered suitor, Robin, whose only failing is that he is too shy to propose to her. The subject of courtship is portrayed differently here than in many other ballads, which feature young men determined to seduce their sweethearts without marrying them. Fashions of the age perhaps had some influence on the tone of ballads. In the eighteenth century it seems to have been more acceptable for men to appear as scoundrels than in the nineteenth century, when this broadside was published.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'My mither men't my auld breeks, / An' wow! But they were duddy, / An sent me to get shod our mare / At Robin Tamson's smiddy. / The smiddy stands beside a burn / That wimples through the clachan; / I never yet gae by the door, / But aye I fa' a lauchin.' The printer and supplier of this broadside are not identified, but at the foot of the page there is an advertisment for songbooks 'sent post free to any address for 7 stamps'.
The rituals and risks of courting were popular subjects for ballads. Here the courting theme is used for comic purposes. The ballad is narrated by a young man who uses the opportunity of having his mare shod to woo the blacksmith's daughter. The young couple flee on the back of the mare, pursued by the blacksmith. When he finally catches up with them however, the narrator pacifies the blacksmith by offering his mother in exchange for the blacksmith's daughter, a deal the blacksmith eagerly accepts.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I'm as happy as a queen, and the day gangs alang / Like an hour in the month o' May, / Said young Maggie Benson, wi'a face fu o' smiles, / For my lad's come back the day. / Aye, and mony's the lang weary nicht I've passed / Since my love bade me gudebye; / I never thocht I'd leeve to see this happy day, / For I've done nocht but cry. ' This ballad was to be sung to the tune of 'My Love Nell', and was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee.
Parted lovers featured often in ballads, and one of the most common reasons for separation was that the 'lad' had enlisted for the army, leaving his girlfriend at home. This ballad is a poignant variation on this theme. It is mainly narrated by Maggie, who is waiting for her sweetheart to return home from the army. In the opening verse she is 'as happy as a queen', but as the ballad unfolds, we learn that she has not had a letter from her Jock, and that she has heard he is courting someone else. At the end Jock does return, drunk, and barely notices her, yet despite her sadness Maggie remains devoted to him.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Nanny's to the Green. Wood Jane, / To hear the Lintwhite chattering / And Willie's follow'd her alane; / To gain her Love by flattering. / But all that he could do or say, / She snuft and sneered at him, / And ay when he began to Woe, She had him mind wha gat him.'
The phrase 'Ranty Tanty' has rather obscure origins. Read as one word it is the name for certain types of weed (one which grows red amongst corn and the other a broad-leaved docking) and the name of the drink distilled from it. Taken separately, however, the expression means a lively wrangle or a riotous, almost tipsy, argument. It went on to become a slang term for a prostitute during the 1800s. Similar lyrics can be found under the titles, 'Tow to Spine', 'Scorn fu' Nancy' and 'Nancy's to the green-wood gane'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'LADY'S VERSION OF / PRETTY LITTLE NELL / THE FARMER'S DAUGHTER. / Written and Composed expressly for / Miss NELL MOONEY, / By Mr James A. Kerr, Edinburgh. / Air. PRETTY NELL.' The ballad begins: 'Now I am not a fast young lady, / Nor do I lead a fashionable life'.
There are no publication details included on this sheet, although the author and commission details, more unusually, have been given. It would appear that the song was written by James Kerr, who may also be the un-named 'gent' in the song, to the 'farmer's daughter Nell' in the lyrics. The song may have been published to attract Nell's attention, as a celebration of their relationship. Perhaps the information was only included as a marketing ploy, to tug at the readers' heart-strings and lend an air of innocent romance to the sheet.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first verse of 'Pretty Little Nell' begins: 'When strolling on one summer's day down / a country lane, / just for a change of air, my boys, from town that / day I came'. The chorus begins: 'Pretty Little Nell, the farmer's daughter / I met her at the well drawing water'. Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut illustration of a young woman with a dog.
The first verse of 'Down Among the Coal' begins: 'JEMIMA lived in service once, at a house in St. Enoch Square, / She ne'er got out, so I used to go and cour her there'. The chorus begins: 'Down among the coals, down among the coals, / All alone and in the dark, I say boys, it is a lark'.
Whilst no publication details have been included on this sheet, the number '670' does suggest that it was published as part of a sequence. A number of broadside producers issued series in the hope that people would begin to collect them. This particular sheet would have probably sold well because of the inclusion of two ballads and a small illustration. Often sold for the same price as those carrying only one ballad, people considered them good value for money - two for the price of one!This ballad begins: 'Twas near the banks of bonny Tweed, / And in a flowery dell, / A rustic cottage reared its head, / The traveller knew it well; / For there a little lassie dwelt, / As fair as beauty's queen - / Not one so rare, not one so fair / As pretty Rosaline.' It was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, and was published on Saturday, 23rd December 1871 by the Poet's Box in Glasgow, priced one penny.
This tragic little song encompasses themes that were popular in the ballad tradition from the early, pre-printing days. The fall from innocence of a young woman was a common subject. The 'cruel lord' who is Rosaline's undoing in this ballad is also a familiar stock figure from the oral tradition. An Edenic pastoral setting into which evil is introduced features here and recurs in other ballads: nature is sometimes presented as evidence of God's goodness, sometimes as wild and arbitrary, and sometimes as both within the one song.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'A VILLAGE maid she sat weeping / She thought of happy days gone by, / And as her darling babe lay sleeping / A tear fell gently from her eye. / She tho ught of home and her deceiver / Poor girl by him she was betrayed, / She's left alone now broken hearted, The poor forsaken village maid.'
'The Poor Forsaken Village Maid' tells the story of a village girl who is seduced and taken to live in a large town by her lover, but who is then abandoned when she falls pregnant. At the end the girl drowns herself and her baby. This ballad reflects, without condemning, the harsh presbyterian morality that prevailed in Scotland as late as the nineteenth century. It is implied that the girl cannot possibly return to her home village because of the shame it would bring her parents. Her suicide is presented as a tragic, but inevitable, consequence of her actions.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The Laird o' Cockpen he's puir and he's duddy / Wi' daidling and drinking his head is aye muddy / But he was determined to hae a bit wife, / Although shs [she] should vex him the rest o' his life'.
As the title suggests, this ballad is a parody of the popular song entitled the 'Laird o' Cockpen'. The original version is attributed to Lady Carolina Nairne (Carolina Oliphant) (1766-1845) and begins: 'The Laird o' Cockpen, he's proud and he's great, / His mind is ta'en up wi' the things o' the state'. Whilst the Laird o' Cockpen is proud and great in Lady Nairne's version, he is turned down by the object of his affection. In the parody, however, despite being poor and ragged, the Laird o' Cockpen is accepted as a suitable suitor and lives happily ever after.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'In blythe and bonny Scotland, where the blue bells do grow, / There dwelt a pretty fair maid down in a valley low.' The woodcut included above the title shows a wooded valley. At the bottom of the valley a uniformed man is being brutally attacked by both women and men, one of whom is on a horse.
This song tells the story of the strength of Mary's love for her Henry. He was a soldier who was called to India whilst they were courting. Mary then suggests that they marry, and she joins up as a boy in order to be spared the pain of parting. As a result, she has to witness Henry's death in India, upon which she commits suicide. Much as wifely devotion was a cherished characteristic in women during the Victorian period, this display of unfeminine behaviour would have been frowned upon. Nevertheless there are other stories of women who cross-dressed in order to enter a man's world.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This ballad begins: 'In blythe and bonny Scotland where the blue bells do grow, / There dwelt a pretty maid down in a valley low. / Its all the day long she herded sheep upon the banks of Clyde, / Although her lot in life was low she was called the village pride.' The broadside carries no publication details.
The notion of being willing to die for love has long been an element in romantic poems and songs, and is often found in broadside ballads. One way in which this devotion is manifested is in the idea of a woman disguising herself as a man so that she can stay by her husband's side when he goes to war. In some ballads the man insists that the woman stay at home, but in 'The Paisley Officer' the young bride does indeed disguise herself as a soldier, and she and her husband are both killed on the battlefield. The conflict referred to appears to be the First Indian War of Independence, or 'Indian Mutiny', which would date this ballad at later than 1857.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'In blythe and bonny Scotland, where the blue bells do grow, / There dwelt a pretty fair maid down in a valley low'. A woodcut has been included at the top of the sheet. It shows a vanquished man in a wooded glade, surrounded by threatening advisories.
This ballad was probably quite popular with the audiences of its time as there are many occurrences of it the National Library of Scotland's collection. Certainly the elements of this story are adventures and emotive. The soldier, Henry, and meets, falls in love with and makes an honest woman of Mary. He is then posted elsewhere and rather than be parted from her lover, Mary cross-dresses and follows him. As result she has to witness his horrific death and then begin to rebuild her life. The climactic scene of the poem is reflected in the woodcut at the top of the page.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'On the banks of Allan Water / When the sweet spring-time did fall / Was the miller's lovely daughter, / Fairest of them all, / For his Brlde a soldier sought her, / And a winning tongue had he! / On the banks of Allan Water, / None so gay as she.' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee. It does not carry a date of publication.
'On the Banks of Allan Water' is believed to have been written by Matthew Lewis (1775-1818), the English author, socialite and one-time member of parliament best known for his gothic novel 'The Monk'. Although Lewis was an Englishman, his song refers to a Scottish river, the Allan Water, which rises in the Ochil Hills and joins the Forth south of Bridge of Allan. The song became very popular and features in Thomas Hardy's 1874 novel 'Far From the Madding Crowd'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.'Auld Bailie Snap' begins: 'There is auld Bailie Snap he does reign in the east'. 'Ancient Striling' begins: 'Let minstrels sing of sparkling wine'. 'My Bonnie Dark-Eyed Dearie' begins: 'Oh, the sun has set an gloamin' grey'. 'Leaving Thee for Ever' begins: 'I leave thee not in passion's hour'. The broadside was published for the author at the Minerva Printing Works, 80 London Street, Glasgow. It is not dated.
This broadside appears to be an example of a phenomenon popularly known as 'vanity publishing', where an author pays to have his or her work published. One of the best known so-called 'vanity publishers' was Minerva Press, which was established in London in 1810, and it appears that John Pettigrew had his songs published by a Glasgow branch of this press. As the financer and sole distributor, as well as the author, of this broadside, Pettigrew appears to have had a great say in the design of the sheet. Unusually, he has included a curriculum vitae at the foot of the page, to prove his credentials as a songwriter. Pettigrew also credits additional composers or performers where appropriate.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'On the banks of Allan Water / When the sweet spring-time did fall / Was the miller's lovely daughter, / Fairest of them all.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Boz, 224 Overgate Dundee.'
The River Allan, Perthshire, was a popular literary motif during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. This song first and foremost is a poem of high drama and emotion which would probably have admirably entertained an audience. It is also used as a vehicle of social instruction though - as a warning to young men and women about their behaviour and other people's motives.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'In a fair valley I wandere'd, / O'er its meadow pathways green; / Where a singing brook was flowing, / Like the spirit of the scene; / And I saw a lovely maiden, / With a basket brimming o'er; / With sweet buds, and so I ask'd her / For a flower, and - nothing more.'  It was printed by Robert M'Intosh, probably in Glasgow.
'Nothing More' is a romantic song with a strong moral subtext. The art of seduction was a common theme in ballads, and many end with a woman alone, broken-hearted and shamed in some way. In this example, however, the lovestruck narrator is restrained and patient, asking his sweetheart only for a flower, or a smile, or a kiss, and 'nothing more'. His gallantry is eventually rewarded when the girl he has wooed 'for weeks and months' consents to marry him.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'I am a yeung man in search of a wife, / All for to be the pleasures and comforts of my life, / If anyone should hear me, and I declare its true, / Saying, now we will get married, we've got nothing else to do.' A woodcut illustration showing a young couple sitting underneath a tree, surrounded by several figures, has been included.There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
The young man of this light-hearted ditty soon meets a young woman and proposes marriage on the grounds that they both have 'nothing else to do'. They then rush off to talk to a priest who agrees to marry them on the grounds that he has 'nothing else to do'. The song ends on a humorous and slighty risqué note, with the couple declaring that now they are married they 'will sing no more about it' as they have now 'got something else to do'. Tactfully, the 'something else' is left up to the imagination of the reader!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Now Jenny lass, my bonny bird / My daddy's dead an' a' that, / He's snugly laid a-neath the yaird, / An' I'm his heir an' a' that.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
The light-hearted verses to this broadside ballad tell the story of a young male suitor whose father has just died, leaving him the financial security to woo his beloved Jenny. After humorously regaling his lover with the inventory of his father?s worldly possessions bequeathed to him, the young man adopts a serious tone as he states his love for Jenny. In response to hearing of this wealth, Jenny puts her hand in his hand and, symbolically, the 'he' and 'she' of the ballad change to 'they'. Many romantic broadside ballads such as this are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'In Derry-down Dale when I wanted a mate, / I went with my daddy a-courting to Kate; / With my nosegay so fine, and my holiday clothes, / My hands in my pockets, a courting I goes; / the weather was cold and my bosom was hot, / My heart in a gallop, my mare in a trot; / Now I was so bashful, and loving withal, / My tongue stuck to my mouth, I said nothing at all, / But fol, de rol.' This ballad was published on Saturday, 24th November 1855 by the Poet's Box in Glasgow, priced one penny.
The text of this ballad is bookended by advertisements for other songs that can be obtained at the Glagsow Poet's Box. Categories include 'sentimental, love, comic, sea, Jacobite, negro, and all other descriptions'. This indicates how popular broadside ballads still were, over two centuries after they were first published. It also reveals that music emerging from various historical developments over the intervening years, for example the slave trade or the Jacobite risings, had entered mainstream British society and broadened the definition of 'ballad'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Oh! I'm lonely to-night, love, without you, / And sigh for one glance of your eye, / For sure there's a charm, love, about you, / Whenever I know you are nigh. / Like the beam of the star when 'tis smiling, / Is the glance which your eye can't conceal; / And your voice is so sweet and beguiling, / That I love you, sweet Norah O'Neil.' This ballad was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and was priced at one penny. It was published on Saturday, 20th February 1869 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
In the early days of broadside ballad publication, it is likely that the majority of ballads published in a certain area had their roots in or around that area. In this broadside from 1869, on the other hand, the text below the title explains that the song has been sung, by Albyn Buckley, at 'all the Principal Concert Halls in Britain'. Music halls became the premier form of light entertainment in Britain from the 1850s, and touring performers could become famous in their own right. It made commercial sense for broadside publishers in a certain area to produce copies of songs that had been performed locally by a popular visiting singer.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem begins, 'Down by the beautiful Lakes of Killarney, / Off times I have met my own dear Barney'. The sheet has been signed by the poet. The National Library of Scotland has two other signed McGonagall poems, 'The Burial of Mr Gladstone' and 'The Blind Girl'. A note at the top states the poem was composed in September 1899.
William McGonagall (the 'Sir' is an affectation), was born around 1825 in Edinburgh. He started writing poetry in his late forties. He is remembered today chiefly for the awfulness of his poems. However, though mocked publicly in his lifetime, he never lost faith in his own genius. This self-belief could partly explain his enduring appeal. It is likely that McGonagall himself hawked this sheet. Broadside publications of his works were his main source of income. He died in 1902.
In his autobiography, McGonagall records that the honourary title 'Sir William Topaz McGonagall, Knight of the White Elephant, Burma' was awarded to him in a letter by King Theebaw of Burmah and the Andaman Islands. King Theebaw was a real person, although it seems likely the title was a cruel hoax, albeit one which McGonagall believed for the rest of his life.Verse 1: 'Oh, ye needna be courtin' at me, auld man, / Ye needna be courtin' at me; / Ye're threescore and three, and ye're blin' o' an e'e / Sae ye needna be courtin' at me, auld man, / Ye needna be courtin' at me.'
The question of whether it is wiser to marry for money or for love is at the heart of this popular song. This was a recurring theme in songs and novels in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The verses are narrated alternatingly by the 'sweet lass', who is already in love with a 'laddie', and the 'auld man', who is trying to tempt her with his 'gowd' or gold. The girl's determination holds firm in the end, and the broadside printer's sympathies also seem to lie with her, given the unflattering illustration of the 'auld man' on this broadside.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Will you gang awa' wi' me bonny lassie O, / Across th' Atlantic sea bonny lassie O'. It was published by McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, which is in Glasgow. The sheet is illustrated with a faded woodcut depicting a soldier in Highland military dress.
Laments and sentimental songs on the subject of leaving Scotland or Ireland are common around the world, as both these countries experienced high levels of emigration in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The National Library of Scotland holds a number of other sheets on the same theme, including The Irish Emigrant' and 'The Song of the Emigrant'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: PEGGY's a maid both kind and fair / and Peggy is dear to Johnnie, / And none in all Scot'and here or there / None is so blythe and bonny'. The broadside was published by John Pitts at the Toy Warehouse, 6 Great St Andrew Street, in the Seven Dials area of London.
'Whistle my Love and I'll Come Down' is a Scottish ballad about the love between 'Peggy' and 'Johnny'. Peggy is a very idealised romantic heroine, who is beautiful, kind, musical and humble. The refrain 'And Peggy has vowed their love to crown / O whistle my love and I'll come down, / and gang to the church with Johnny' suggests that Peggy has agreed to marry Johnny, and will do so whenever he whistles. The whistle is a well-known roamantic sign that also features in the song 'Whistle and I'll Come To You, My Lad', by Robert Burns (1759-1796).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'There was a rich gentleman in Glasgow did dwell, / He had a lovely daughter a sailor loved well; / Because she was handsome and loved him so true, / Her father he wanted her to bid him adieu.' A woodcut illustration of a sailing vessel has been included above the title.
'William and Herriet' touches on the traditional theme of tragic love, which is to be found in many early ballads. Herriet's father, believing his daughter to be too good for her lover, insists she end the relationship. Herriet refuses and, disguised as a sailor, departs with William for foreign shores. Tragically, the two young lovers find themselves shipwrecked and stranded on an inhospitable island. The ballad ends with the doomed lovers dying in each others arms.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'You have told me that you love me, / And your heart's thoughts seem to speak'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. There is a woodcut illustration at the top of the sheet which depicts the Prince of Wales' crest.
Many of James Lindsay's sheets carry illustrations which are loosely connected to the text. This one shows the crest of the Prince of Wales. A likely explanation for this is that George Linley, the author of the poem, had strong associations with the Prince of Wales. He also wrote the famous song 'God Bless the Prince of Wales'. The first Prince of Wales crest was created in 1301, by Edward I. This crest was adopted during the middle of the fourteenth century by Edward's grandson, the Black Prince. The feathers were taken from his mother's, Phillipa of Hainault's, crest and the motto 'Ich diene', which means 'I serve', from the King of Bohemia. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'A charming young creature named Nancy Barr, / Nancy Barr, lived with her ma; / Of fair ones, oh! she was the fairest by far, / A charmer bewitching and smart. / No dicky-bird singing up in the sky, / In the sky. Was more happy than I, / But to happiness now I have said "goodbye," / For to pieces she's broken my heart!' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, and was published on Saturday, 4th December 1869, by the Poet's Box in Glasgow, priced at one penny.
'Where is my Nancy?', which is narrated by a man who has been left at the altar by his prospective bride, should be a sad affair. Instead, the rhyme-scheme and vocabulary the author has chosen turn it into a funny, lively song. The repetition in the first and second and fifth and sixth lines commits the poet to finding internal rhymes, and sometimes these verge on the nonsensical, for example 'Love at first sight, lumps of delight' or 'My heart went wop, and flippity flop'. This seems to be a deliberate move by the author to make the narrator a figure of fun.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'O cease ye a while ye winds to blow, / O cease ye murmuring streams to flow! / Be still! Be hush'd every rude noise! / I think I hear my true Love's voice.' The broadside was published by McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow. It is illustrated with a woodcut of a Scottish soldier.
'The Wanderer' is a very popular title for ballads, and reflects the romantic connotations that travelling often has in literature, music and art, and also the theme of separation which is common in love songs and poems. This broadside is a folk derivative of the song "Cease a while ye winds to blow," published by J. C. Bach in "The Third collection of favorite songs sung at Vaux-Hall" (London: Welcker, [1771]).  The source of the lyric is unknown.  The lyric used by 'London' Bach was printed in "Vocal Music, or the Songster's Companion" (London: J. Bew, 1778?) and later compendia, and was set in four parts by the American composer Jacob French, to a tune he named "Attention," in "New American Melody" (Boston: John Norman, 1789). 
Usually the 'wanderer' or traveller in such songs is a man, who has joined the armed forces or gone away to look for work or simply to experience the world, and the narrator is a bereft woman left at home. In this example, the female narrator is listening for her lover to come home, and begins to fear that he may have been lost in a storm.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside word puzzle begins: 'In these few lines I've laid a plot, / In half an hour you'll read them not - / To read them right, as they should be, / Come - lay a wager - try and see.' Although no publication date is included, the sheet was published by Menzies of Edinburgh.
This highly unusual broadside explores the theme of romantic love, but in the complicated form of a word puzzle. Unfortunately, it is not clear how the middle section of this word puzzle, or conundrum, should be read. It would appear, however, that the reader can pick and mix the set expressions included in the three columns, thereby producing new and original lines of romantic poetry for the object of his or her desire. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains other broadsides that are written in the form of word puzzles.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'Twas of a summer's evening, as I went out to walk, / I heard two charming lovers, together they did talk.' This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow. A woodcut illustration of a square-rigged ship has been included to increase the perceived value of the sheet.
It was during the 1840s and 1850s that the numbers of Irish immigrants into Glasgow began to increase, to the point where the city authorities are recorded as having sent many of them back. With regular sailings between Belfast, Derry and Glasgow, this passage was cheaper to fund than that to the Americas and so it was often the only option for the poor and destitute. The topic of this sheet is perhaps meant to appeal to this section of the audience.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The story's title reads: 'This is a particular Account, founded on fact, of two young rovin' youths, who courted Lasses for cake an' puddin'.' Under the title, there is an introductory verse which reads: 'You do now see, as well as I / These twa young wanton sluts ;/ Who've taken in these hungry fellows, / To fill their empty guts.' Although the date of publication is not included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was 'Published by W. SMITH, No. 3, Bristo Port', which is an Edinburgh address.
This broadside contains a light-hearted story that was written to entertain its audience, by playing on the old maxim that the route to a man's heart is through his stomach. Thus, we have a situation whereby two servant girls invite their boyfriends in for a meal. However, it seems that their masters, a minister and his wife, do not approve of servants having their friends visit them. So when the minister's wife appears unexpectedly, a whole series of comic episodes occur, as the girls try to hide their suitors in the house. The ailments that afflict the two suitors as a result of their adventure, could be interpreted as a mild moral warning to servants to improve their conduct.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'TRUE LOVE MURDERED OR A NEW DIALOGUE BETWEEN A Young GENTLEMAN and a MAID of lower Degree / To the Tune of "Fortune my Foe". / There was a worthy young Squayer / Whom a fair Damsel did love.'
Broadside ballads were cheap and easily accessible. They were often sold for a penny a sheet and covered topics which would have been instantly recognisable to the general population, such as love, marriage and poverty. They were also often used as a moral forum with 'lessons' of life included in the narrative. They were only printed on one side so that they could be pasted to walls and in this way enjoyed, momentarily and in the passing, by many people.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'In the city of Exeter there lived a Squire, / And he had a daughter most beautiful and fair, / And she lov'd a shepherd below her degree, / Which caused her ruin and sad misery.' It was published by James Lindsay of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
This song touches on one of the most common themes found in the traditional folk ballad, that of tragic love. The unfortunate shepherdess of the title laments the murder of her young lover, the shepherd, at the hands of her father. As he is lying bleeding, he pledges his small flock to her with the promise that 'They'l be your companions thro' hail wind and snow'. His dying words prove to be true and despite the eventual death of her estranged father and the promise of a rather large inheritance, the young woman relinquishes her birthright and vows to wander the hills 'till death ends the strife, / Lamenting my shepherd all the days of my life'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad, to its own proper tune, begins: 'Down by a Meadow green, / I chanc'd to meet my Dear, / She appeared like a Queen / Fill'd me with Joy and Fear'.
The tune 'The bonie brooket lassie, blew beneath the eyes' was first recorded in the Leyden manuscript of 1692, and the same tune, without a name, was entered in the Sinkler manuscript of 1710. Robert Burns included this song in his selection for the 'Scots Musical Museum'. In a private set of accompanying notes he revealed his lyrics had been written by James Tytler of Edinburgh but the first two lines were taken from an older fragmentary song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Thy voice is near me in my dreams, / In accents sweet and low, / Telling of happiness and love, / In days long, long ago.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this very popular song can always be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the ballad should be sung to an original tune. The sheet was printed on the Saturday morning of November 27th, 1869, and cost one penny.
Written from the viewpoint of a woman, this romantic ballad tells of her love for a sweetheart who lives far away from her. This subject of parted lovers pining for their other half is a common theme in broadside ballads, and one that would have been familiar to many Scots during the age when so many people emigrated from the country. Living on her fond memories of the past, the woman has not yet abandoned all hope of a reunion with her lover, and the ballad closes on this unresolved note of loving faith.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I come from Laaf-and-daaf and half-and-half, / Across the Welsh mountains, / Where the leeks and the violets / And the nanny-goats do dwell - / I come here in search / Of a lovely young damsel, / And where she has gone to / I'm sure I can't tell.' It was to be sung to an 'Original' tune and was priced at one penny. The broadside was published on Saturday, 7th October 1865 by the Poet's Box in Glasgow.
This is a comic song that takes a popular romantic ballad premise, the narrator whose lover has forsaken him or her, and introduces grotesque or nonsensical images that reduce the apparent tragedy of the song to farce. The first verse could almost be taken seriously, but after this the verses become increasingly ridiculous. In verse two, the narrator describes as one of Jenny's most beautiful features the fact that she 'squints with one eye'; in verse five, he searches for her up a chimney; and finally, in verse seven, there is comic pathos when the apparently suicidal narrator bids farewell to 'the moo-cows so brown'.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'O' wha is he I love sae well? / who has my heart an a' / O wha is he, 'tis sair to tell, / he's o'er the seas awa,. / There's Charlie, he's a sodger lad. / and Davie blythe is he; / And Willie in his tartan plaid, / they're a' a' teasing me.' The address of the publisher has been obscured on this broadside, although an advertisement for another of its publications, 'The Ball-Room Companion', has been left intact.
This ballad is narrated by a young woman who apparently has a romantic dilemma. In the first verse, she describes three men who are 'teasing' her, and suggests that she does not know which one she loves the best. Carl, the wealthy clan chief, gets all of verse two to himself. Ultimately, however,  in verse three, the narrator realises she loves her 'Jamie' and vows to marry him 'tho his siller store be sma''. The question of whether it is better to marry for money or for love is one that recurs in ballads, and more often than not, love wins.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'A goblet of Burgundy, fill, fill, for me / Give those who prefer it, champagne'. The second ballad begins: 'MERRILY pass the glass around, / We'll spend a night of glee'. The third ballad begins: 'March! March! Ettrick and Teviotdale, / Why, the de'il, dinnar ye march forward in order?'. The fourth ballad begins: 'Say, shall we meet when the sun is glowing, / Down by the streamlet softly flowing'.
As this broadside contains four ballads, the pedlars - or chapmen - who sold these publications to the general public would have marketed it as a wonderful bargain. The two ballads on the left hand side are all about drinking alcohol and making toasts of undying loyalty to the king. The third ballad, meanwhile, is a celebration of the martial qualities of famous Scottish figures from the past. Employing warm imagery from nature to create a favourable setting, the fourth ballad is a romantic description of two eloping lovers arranging a secret rendezvous.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1, to be sung to an original tune: ' Wild flowers may deck the verdant vale, / And perfume sweet the balmy gale, / They ne'er can be compar'd to thee, / Dear Annie o' the winding Dee . . .' It is not clear why the text after 'Poet's Box' has been scratched out, perhaps it was an address which had changed.
The place of publication is not mentioned although we are told the publisher was the Poet's Box. Several towns had firms who called themselves by that name and the most prolific was based in Glasgow. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. This penny broadside is dated as precisely as the morning of Saturday, May 24th 1856. Also included is a list of new songs available, some of which are still sung today, such as 'Whisky in the Jar'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Long ago an angel I knew, if ever a one was seen, / She was a bonny sweet child of eight, and I was just eighteen: / And every night she'd sit on my knee, her arms round my neck and say / I love you, I love you, and when I grow big, now promise to marry your May.'  This broadside was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee and priced at one penny.
This song is based on the common phenomenon of young children making heroes of those a few years older than them. As the narrator suspects, when he returns after several years of travelling, his 'Sweetheart May' has grown out of her childhood crush, has forgotten all about him and is engaged to be married.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Pray look on this victim of Cupid, / Tae my tale of woe give an ear, / As sure as death I'm knocked quite stupid, / I'll gang wrang in the head tae, I fear'. It could be purchased from the Poet's Box of the Overgate, Dundee, and was priced at one penny.
The narrator of this rather sad, but intentionally humorous, tale alternates between verse and spoken form to recount the tragic details of his short voyage aboard the steamship, the 'Bumbee'. After a string of unfortunate events, the narrator appears inconsolable when he finally loses his sweetheart to the captain of the steamship. The name of the accompanying melody is not provided on this sheet, only that the song was to be sung to the original tune. This suggests that the song was already well known to people before its appearance here.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Pray look on this victim of Cupid, / Tae my tale of woe give an ear, / As sure as death I'm knocked quite stupid, / I'll gang wrang in the head tae, I fear, / An it's a' through a lass that I gaed wi' / Ay, Mary M'Phail was her name; / My affections she has cruelly played wi', / And left me like a wandered wean.' This ballad was to be sung to an original tune, and was published by the Poet's Box in Dundee.
This song is an example of the reductive humour that is common in Scots songs and poetry. The narrator presents the loss of his sweetheart as a great tragedy but little details in the telling, particularly in the spoken sections, render the tale increasingly ridiculous. The whole premise of the song - that the lives of a whole ship's crew and passengers are endangered by a storm during a romantic cruise down the Paisley Canal - marks the song out as farce. It was probably written for performance in a music hall or pub.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The red moon is up on the moss-covered mountain; / The hour is at hand when I promised to rove, / With the turf-cutter's daughter by Logan's bright water, / And tell her how faithful her Donald can love.' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
This broadside ballad contains a love song dedicated to Mary, 'The Star of Glengary'. As both lovers are shown to be in tune with nature, it is likely that this ballad was written during the Romantic era, in the latter part of the eighteenth century. The red moon eclipse mentioned in the opening line is probably a pagan symbol of female fertility. Glengarry is located between Loch Ness and Loch Lochy, in the heart of the Scottish Highlands' Great Glen.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Far awa' frae bonnie Scotland, / I have often spent my time, / By the mountains, lakes, and valleys, / In some distant, foreign clime. / There I'd sit and sometimes ponder. / 'Midst their bright and varied scenes, / But my thoughts would always wander / To the hame o' Jeanie Deans.' 'BARR, LONDON STREET, GLASGOW' is printed at the bottom of the sheet.
Jeanie Deans, 'the cow-feeder's daughter', was the heroine of Walter Scott's 'The Heart of Midlothan' (1818). This song outlines her journey on foot to London to obtain a pardon for her sister, Effie.  At least one other version of this broadside, entitled 'Jeanie Deans', can be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I'm faur awa' frae Scotland / Nae lovin' yin is near, / I dinna see the auld folk / The folk I loe sae dear; / But I'll leave this foreign laun' / Wi its scenes and sichts sae braw; / And I'll wander hame tae Scotland / An' my bonnie Jeanie Shaw'. The song was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
Emigration and missing one's homeland and loved ones was a common theme for broadsides, especially in the nineteenth century when emigration escalated. It is still an important element of the modern Scots and Irish folk tradition, especially in Canada and America. Unlike many of the songs, which are really laments, here the singer has made the decision to return to Scotland to be reunited with his loved one.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I went out one summer's evening, / To view the banks of sweet Kelvinhaugh: / Twas there I met a wee bleacher lassie, / Her cheeks like roses and her skin like snaw.' This song is to be sung to the tune of 'Lord Bateman's Daughter'. It was published by the Poet's Box of Overgate, Dundee, and cost a penny.
This song begins very traditionally. A man meets a poor working girl and offers her riches if she goes away with him. She refuses to forsake her sailor, though he has been away for seven years. The story then deviates from tradition when it transpires that the man is captain of the ship her lover left on, and he rewards her faithfulness with a gold ring. This song is very similar to 'Collier Laddie', which has a more traditional ending where the girl's loyalty is not rewarded!
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As I roved out on a summer day, / To view the flowers springing'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
This ballad addresses a favourite ballad theme, courtship and marriage with a sudden but inspiring lover. As with most of these poems though, consummation upon the promise of marriage is taken for granted. It is now thought, through the study of early church marriage and baptismal registers that over half this country's women were six months pregnant when they stood at the altar.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'COME all you constant lovers, and to me lend an ear, / And mind this sad relation, which I do give you here'. There are two woodcuts at the top of this sheet. One which represents a man and a woman, of a rustic nature, and some sort of activity being passed from the sky. The other is a dove of hope carrying an olive branch of peace.
Both woodcuts and the lyrics were often used to send a moral message to the populace and offer guidance and advice to the audience. Many authors, printers and distributors saw themselves as society's guardians and so took on a more community spirited role.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.Verse 1: 'The moon is bright - her beauty cheers, / The earth, the sky, the sea, lassie, / And fair as her young light appears, / Still fair art thou to me, bonnie lassie, O.' A note below the title states that 'Copies of this very popular song can always be had in the Poet's Box', (probably Glasgow) and that the ballad should be sung to an original air. The sheet was printed on Saturday June 7th, 1873, and cost one penny.
Bathed in romantic moonlight, the young man who narrates this lyrical ballad is addressing his amorous lines to his sweetheart, who he likens to a 'blooming mountain rose'. Since the ballad-writer personifies the moon, the wind and other natural elements, it is a clever contrast to reverse this process by speaking of his love as a wild rose. The sheet also contains a catalogue of other songs that are available for purchase by post, and details regarding the procedure to do this. Underneath this advertisement, a further note states that the Poet's Box can publish any type of information, and is the cheapest printer in the city.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Will you go to the Highlands, my jewel, with me? / Will you go to the Highlands the flocks for to see? / It is health to my jewel to breathe the sweet air, / And to pull the blackberries in the forest so fair.' A note below the title states that this ballad was to be sung to an original tune. Sold for a penny, a further note below the title states that 'Copies can always be had in the Pos [Poet's] Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow'.
This ballad celebrates the central Romantic concept of young lovers being in tune with nature and each other. The ballad tells the story of a young man from the Highlands who having fallen in love with a young woman who lives in the Lowlands, asks her to go and live with him in the Highlands. At this time, however, there existed a strong element of mistrust between the people of these two regions. Thus, the girl's father states that he will not allow his daughter to travel with her lover to the Highlands. Happily, however, love triumphs over all obstacles, and the young man and the father are eventually reconciled - thus opening the door for a symbolic marriage between Highlands and Lowlands.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O bonnie Lassie wilt thou go, / Wilt thou go, wilt thou go, / O bonny Lassie wilt thou go, / To the Birks of Abergeldy.' The text preceding it reads: 'A New Song, / To its own Proper Tune.'
The Birks of Abergeldy was a popular country dance, a reel involving three couples, during the early eighteenth century. The lyricist and composer of the piece have not been recorded, but the first recorded appearance of the melody was in 1692. It had been published south of the border by 1700. The lyrics were famously rewritten by Burns when he stayed at Aberfeldy in Perthshire. Those lyrics were originally entitled, 'The Birks o' Aberfeldy'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'O Lass gin ye would think it right, / To gang wi' me this very night, / And cuddle till the morning light, / By a' the lave unseen, O'. 'Lave' in this context is the word for 'guillemots', who are renowned for choosing and remaining with only one mate, and 'birken' is the Scots words for 'birch'. There are no publication details given, but this is one of two songs - printed by James Lindsay - on this sheet. 
The woodcut at the top of the sheet, although clear and detailed, is still quite rough and ready. This illustration, although not directly related to the lyrics, is supposed to enhance the atmosphere of 'The Birken Tree'. The idea expressed in the woodcut of a hard-working, wholesome country lass is carried through into the text. The text deals with a common theme amongst broadsides, that of sneaking out when mother has forbade it. Here, however, a happy ending is included, with Jean and Johnny enjoying a happy life together.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'O lassie gin ye wad think it right, / To gang wi' me this very night / And cuddle till the morning light / By a the lave unseen, O. . . ' The name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated.
This romantic ballad is structured on a running dialogue between two young lovers, Johnny and Jean. Johnny is trying to woo the suspicious Jean, and wants to arrange a meeting underneath a birch tree. Known as the 'Lady of the Woods', the birch tree is an ancient Celtic symbol of innocence, fidelity and the immortality of the soul. The ballad climaxes with a meeting between the two young lovers underneath the birch tree, where they pledge their love for one another.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You sailors of the nation I pray you give attention, / It is no false invention as you may plainly see, / My parents of this nation they lived by cultivation, / In a rural habitation, near the banks of sweet Dundee.' A woodcut illustration of a young woman decorates the top of this sheet.
'Betsey of Dundee' is narrated by a sailor who returns to his native Dundee after fighting overseas. Upon his return, the young sailor meets Betsey and falls hopelessly in love with her. Whilst her father initially disapproves of the match, he eventually acquiesces and Betsey and the sailor are wed. Whilst 'Betsey of Dundee' follows a common theme found in many early ballads, mainly that of love involving a returning or departing sailor, the end is something of a surprise. In most other cases, the young couple either elope and tragically die en route or the young suitor meets a grisly end at the hands of his sweetheart's father. Here, however, Betsey and the sailor appear to live happily ever after.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Be valiant still, be valiant still, / Be stout and great, and valiant still'. The text preceding the ballad reads: 'A NEW SONG / Much in request. / Being the Advice of an experienced Lady in Martial Affairs, to her Lover a young Soldier. / Tune of, An old Carle to dannten me.'
In a T.V and radio-less society singing and sporting together was one of the few forms of entertainment. These sheets were supposed to be shared amongst a wide audience, being cheap to buy and often stuck onto walls. As a result competition for sales could be fierce. This is reflected here in the fact that 'A New Song' has a bigger and bolder type than the title of the piece.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'It's of a farmer's daughter, so beautiful I'm told, / Her parents died and left her five hundred pounds in gold, / She lived with her uncle, the cause of all her woe, / You soon shall hear, this maiden fair did prove his overthrow.'
The woodcut carried at the top of this sheet shows a shepherd standing amongst countryside, looking out to sea at a ship. Although many had access to the information on this sheet, not all of the audience could read. This picture means not only can they relate to the sheet, but they would have gained a rough understanding of the text. The symbols are fairly apt for Dundee, which had a busy harbour, surrounded by a fertile and rolling, rural hinterland. This is one of the most famous and widespread of folksongs and versions of it were also published in England and North America. It is also known as 'Undaunted Mary' and 'The farmer's daughter'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse reads: 'Now all young men that are going to be wed, / Don't be caught like a bird with a small piece of bread / For when you are caught, remember it's for life, / I'd have you be careful in choosing a wife.' This broadside was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
There are many broadside ballads offering 'helpful' advice to any man who is considering matrimony. In most of these works, men are warned against gossiping, deceitful, slothful and drunken women. The overriding message appears to be that a good, honest woman is hard to find. Although the majority of these ballads were intended to be humorous, the persistent portrayal of women as the tormentors of man offers an interesting insight into eighteenth- and nineteenth-century attitudes towards women.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My name is Paddy M'Guire, I belong to sweet Tralee, / I fell in love with an Irish girl, the name of Katy M'Gee / I went one night to court her in the pleasant month of May.'
Mr McGuire, it is revealed, owns a farm, and as a result Katy's mother is desperate for the courtship to go well. Katy, however, has a smaller brother, who unaware perhaps of the gravity of the situation, sees this as an opportunity to blackmail Mr McGuire so Katy will not 'hear' of his previous courtships. Nowhere in the song is Katy given a voice! Although set in Ireland, the nature of the topic and humour used would probably have appealed to wide audience.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Hark, will ye gang with me lassie, / To the Banks of Leven water, / And I'll be bound ye'll see lassie, / Varieties to please; Then o'er the glens and hills we'll rove, / We'll haunt the hare the cushy dove, / And on the Banks of Rylew grove, / I'll play the flute to please you.' The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the place or date of publication.
Initially this appears to be a conventional love song, featuring a young man asking his sweetheart to walk with him in beautiful countryside. However, as the song develops, it describes an industrialised Leven valley, rich in overseas trade but also marked by poverty. The idea for a contemporary realist love song about the area may have been formed in reaction to Tobias Smollett's (1721-71) 'To Leven Water', which is a far more traditional and picturesque romantic ballad. The River Leven, which flows from Loch Lomond into the Clyde, encompasses both scenic rural and urban industrial aspects of west central Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Early one summer morning along as I did pass/On the banks of Inverury I met a bonny lass/Her hair hung o?er her shoulders and her eyes like stars did shine/On the banks of Inverury, I wish that she were mine.? There is no place or date of publication.
This ballad which is also known as ?The Banks of Inverurie? is one which remains popular in Scotland to this day. It is about a young man who sees a beautiful young woman on the ?banks of Inverury? and determines to marry her in spite of her protestations.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'As I walkt out one morning, adored as I did pass, / On the banks of Inverary I met a bonny lass'. It was published by Batchelar of Long Alley, probably in London. The woodcut at the top of the sheet is supposed to look like a coat of arms, which would have imbued the sheet with a perceived air of authority.
Meeting a lovely girl on the banks of a river is a fairly common plot amongst Scottish ballads. Yet the romantic, idyllic and peaceful nature of the plot would probably have had widespread and enduring appeal. The theme of chaste and virtuous behaviour is also common amongst broadsides and there is a real fear of innocent women becoming the victims of seduction. Broadsides were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors also tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This sheet begins: 'An Account of the Life and Death of MISS ELIZABETH WATSON, a Gentleman's Daughter, who was betrayed and seduced by a young Gentleman; she became pregnant to him -- his love soon turned to hatred . . . She was then reduced to poverty . . . and on Monday last, was found in a most deplorable condition, lying dead in a byre near mid Calder, together with a copy of an interesting Letter, and also a Copy of Verses . . . in her own hand writing.' This sheet was published by Francis McCartney.
There follows a copy of the letter supposedly found on Miss Watson, and of the verses she apparently wrote. In the letter she bemoans the loss of 'the brightest gem of the female character', her virginity, and expresses sadness and shame over her pregnancy. The verses are reasonably well-composed, although should not be taken as being Miss Watson's. Broadside publishers were not averse to fabricating last words, confessions and other personal statements, if it meant it would sell more copies.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'A widow lived in our toun, / And she was skeigh and in her prime, / And weel she lo'ed an auld tune, / But ne'er got ane to keep the time. / A fiddler passing by ae day, / And playing up a canty spring, / The widow fidged and laughed and said, / "Can ye play that auld thing ower again?"' The broadside was published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee'. At the bottom of the sheet a mail order service for songs is advertised.
This ballad tells the story of a music-loving widow who is enchanted by the playing of a passing fiddler, and invites him to stay with her, an invitation he accepts. Ballads were frequently concerned with romantic or sexual matters, and it is probable that, in this example, the music and the playing of musical instruments were intended as metaphors for sexual attraction and sexual activity.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This report begins: 'The particulars of the Life and Death of Miss AGNES RAE, a gentleman's daughter, belonging to near Dunfermline, who was betrayed and seduced by a young gentleman ; she became pregnant to him ; his love turned to hatred for her, and ordered his servants to turn her out of doors ; she was then reduced to poverty and obliged to beg alms from door to door, and on Monday last was found in a deplorable condition, lying dead in a byre belonging to Mr Blackburn, between Dunfermline and Kinross : with a copy of a beautiful and interesting Letter, and a copy of Verses, which were found in her pocket-book, written in her own handwriting.' Printed by Kirkwood in Glasgow.
This broadsheet combines a mixture of literary styles, including a general introduction, a personal account of her tragedy seemingly written by Agnes Rae herself, and an instructional ballad to conclude the sheet. The broadsheet tells of how Miss Rae was led astray and seduced by a young gentleman, and how this situation left her poverty and caused her subsequent death. It is possible that this broadsheet is a work of fiction, intended as a moral code of practice and warning to make young people behave themselves.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'As the Laird o' Glentosh was haudin' hame, / Astride o' his nit brown steed, / Up came muckle Macpherson Rab, / Talking o' bleaching thread, thread, thread / Bleth'rin' 'bout bleaching thread.'
In this ballad, Macpherson Rab is advised by the Laird o' Glentosh to leave the parish because of his philandering ways. It is suggested that he move to an area where 'The population stood in need, need, need- / The kintra stood in need.' It is suggested by this and by 'his size and the shape o' his weel-fill'd breeks' that his behaviour is inevitable and will continue wherever he may be. Certainly, the ballad ends with Rab working near the Clyde 'Whaur, dootless, the wives and the lasses a' / Are praying he lang may abide, bide, bide - / Are praying he aye may abide.' Whilst the ballad clearly deals with the subject of virility, it also highlights the positive female reaction and interest in Rab's sexual prowess.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'LONG absent in the wars I've been, / For her whom I love best, / Returned once more to my native shore, / Love sweet then fill'd my breast'. The text before this reads: 'Printed by T. Birt. 10 Great St Andrews Street wholesale and retail, Seven Dials, London. Country Orders punctually attended to.'
One of Birt's sales points is that people in the countryside can rely on a quick service - perhaps suggestive of Londoners' attitude to their hinterland. It is also curious to note that this extension of Burns's reputation was being sold in London. Presumably the poem refers to Jean Armour, Burns's wife after a long informal relationship. Unfortunately, the high ideals expressed in this poem were typical of this relationship and Burns is never known to have fought in a war.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The tear fell gently from her eye; / When last we parted from the shore, / My bosom heaved with many a sigh, / To think I might ne'er sae her more.' The text preceding it reads: 'PRICE ONE PENNY / This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 190 Overgate, Dundee.'
Most broadsides sold for a penny, although this price was sometimes made more attractive by including two songs or stories on the one sheet. They were usually sold in the street by vendors who sang the song to attract attention. This theme of love separated by the sea may have been a popular theme in Dundee due to its thriving docks. This dockside and long-distance trade, unfortunately, no longer exists.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'ALLAN Water's wide and deep, / and my dear Anny's very bonny; / Wides the Straith that lyes above't / if't were mine I'de give it all for Anny.' The text preceding it reads: 'ALLAN WATER: / OR, A / LOVER / IN/ CAPTIVITY: / A NEW SONG: / Sung with a pleasant New Air.'
There are various tunes honoured with 'Allan Water' but the earliest recorded version dates to 1692. Tradition stipulates that the name is derived from the river at Strathallan, Perthshire. The words to this tune also vary from record, but most of them share the theme of Anny's virtues. There are other more factual texts in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which also reveal eighteenth- and nineteenth-century attitudes towards love and courtship.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Don't talk to me of pretty girls, of lovely women don't, / I'll never listen to a word, I won't, no that I won't! / There's not a beauty in the land to match my peerless belle; / I'll tell you all about my love, my beautiful, my Nell.' This song was to be sung to an 'Original' tune, and could be bought for one penny. It was published on 9th May 1868 by the Poet's Box, probably in Glasgow.
This comic ballad is quite strikingly evocative of the social life of a wealthy Victorian bachelor. The scenes in the ballroom mention the different dances that take place, as well as describing the varieties of wine and types of food on offer. The ballad also reflects the comparatively chaste attitudes to romance that prevailed in Victorian times, as the narrator is disgraced publicly for trying to 'steal a kiss'. By contrast, some ballads dating from the eighteenth century have much bawdier contents.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I love a young girl, her name's Mary Ann, she livesa few miles out of town; / She's nicer than jam, sweet on her I am, and often I give a call down, / Just to play kissey kiss, with this dear littie miss, that is if there's no one about, / We spoon when we think there is no one to see us, but somebody's certain to shout.' A note below the title states that this ballad was 'Sung by Charles Oswald, with immense success', and that 'This popular song can be had at the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee'.
This light-hearted ballad tells of a young man's frustration at the behaviour of his sweetheart's little brother, who runs to inform his parents whenever the two lovers start to become slightly amorous. It appears that, upon realising that there is significant financial profit to be had from chaperoning, the entrepreneurial little brother begins to blackmail his sister's sweetheart. The ballad's verses are sung by the young suitor, while the intrusive chorus is sung by the little brother. The inclusion of the singer's name on the broadside perhaps indicates the gradual evolution towards a vaudeville culture.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This highly unusual broadside letter begins: 'REAL COPY of a CURIOUS LOVE LETTER, chiefly in HIEROGLYPHIC CHARACTERS, written by a Love-struck Painter of this City to the object of his affections, a sprightly nursery-maid in a respectable family residing at the west end of the Town.' Although not dated, the sheet was published in Edinburgh by Sanderson.
This wonderful broadside proves that, even in olden days, people understood the concept of text messaging and using symbolic emoticons. Allegedly written and designed by a love-struck artist for his sweetheart the hieroglyphic code of the letter is quite easy to decipher. To read the letter, the audience just has to replace the missing letters with the given symbol. For example, the opening line reads 'Dear Isabella', with the woodcuts of a deer and a bell replacing the missing syllables. Decoding the symbols at the end implies that the letter was written by 'Archibald Wilke'. This broadside is quite similar to the word and symbol puzzles that regularly appear in today's newspapers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This entertaining story begins: 'An account of the Comical Courtship between a Fishwife and a Haddie Carter, showing what past while in the Steam-Boat between Newhaven and Musselburgh'.
This broadside recounts how Peggy's illegitimate child, and lack of wedlock at the age of twenty-six, came between her and her only serious suitor, Sawny, who owned a fish stall. Although the tone and moral stance of the text is in quite bad taste today, it is revealing of attitudes of the time. Courtship, marriage, affairs, status and social consequences are all explored here.
This type of record gives the working-class layer of society a unique voice. Most types of formal historical record are kept to ensure ownership and power, and so are written by those in power. Although perhaps purely imaginary, here an 'ordinary' woman's life is exposed for perusal centuries later.The letter is addressed to Dear Isabella and, with the use of rather novel hieroglyphics, begins: 'Hoping the goodness of your heart will excuse my presumption, I have at last been induced to offer you my hand, dreading the farther competition of a certain one eyed maker of shoes . . .' It was published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh, and was made available to 'Travellers and Hawkers'.
It appears that the sender, Archibald Wilkie, was in competition with another suitor for Isabella's affections. He urges her not to listen to any rumours she might have heard, but to meet him beside her master's gate at 8 o'clock on Sunday. The charm of this letter is to be found in the use of the hieroglyphs, without which it would probably have elicited very little interest.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'FIGHT Which took place at the Dumbie-Dykes, on Friday morging, between a Tailor and Clothier and a Coachman, in respectable family in the New Town, originating in their pretentions to the hand of a handsome Lady's-maid living in the same street.' The broadside was published by Brown of Edinburgh. Although its publication date is not printed on the sheet, a later hand has written the date in as April 1844.
Public bareknuckle fighting was not uncommon in the nineteenth century, and reports of fights often appeared in broadsides. Fights were generally reported in a distinctive colloquial vocabulary, as phrases like 'dexter ogle' and 'pepper-box' illustrate here. In some cases the fights were contested for large purses, and attracted bets on their outcomes, anticipating the more regulated professional boxing that became hugely popular in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The fight described in this broadside, on the other hand, appears to have been more a matter of honour between two men in love with the same woman. Traditionally, among the upper classes, a similar matter might have been settled by a duel with swords or pistols.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Or an account of that Cruel and Inhuman Murder which was committed on the body of MARY JOHNSTON, a young Servant Girl, near Blackburn, on Friday last July 4th, 1823, by JOHN WATSON, Cotton-spinner, in the same place,  who pretended to be Sweetheart. Also, a copy of the Letter sent by him in order to decoy her to the place where he committed the horrid deed, with this young woman's answer.' This sheet was printed for John Thom of Edinburgh and sold for the price of a penny a sheet.
Due to the wide audience which was reached by broadsides they were often used as forums for moralisation. The vast amount of detail and the stilted and formal nature of the letters suggest that some of the information here should be treated with a pinch of salt. The innocent nature of the victim and dreadful predicament would have made compulsive reading, no doubt!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An Affecting Account of a young woman, a servant girl in Kirkcaldy, who put an end to her life, for the sake of a young man there, who had cruelly deceived her with a promise of Marriage; together with a Copy of an interesting LETTER she wrote to him a few minutes before she did the deed.'
The suicide of a young girl who had been seduced then abandoned by her lover is presented in this broadside as a warning to other would-be seducers. It is stated that the suicide note included in the report 'may be depended upon as genuine', but it is probable that the letter was written, or greatly revised, by the broadside author after the event. The victim was a servant girl, who is unlikely to have had the command of written English demonstrated in the letter. The publication of 'last words' attributed to a suicide victim or condemned murderer but often actually composed by an anonymous author, were common in broadsides that sought to issue moral guidance.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'We find that the solemn vows and promises are of so great weight, and strictly binding by the severe notice God has taken of those that have violated them, in punishing the dishonour done to his name, by various and fearful judgements ; and the dismal death this young woman died in consequence of breaking her solemn vow to the man who adored her, furnishes another striking example of the heinousness of the crime.' Printed for James Taylor, Edinburgh.
Opening with a quick hellfire sermon, this broadside tells the tragic story of two 'star-crossed lovers', and the cruel fate that apparently befell them when true love was not allowed to run its course. It is difficult to know whether this broadside story is loosely based on some incident from real life, or if it is just fiction intended for moral instruction. For while common names and general locations are included, the style and tone of the writing is very much that of an eighteenth century parable.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A true account of a young Lady, a Gentleman's Daughter, who Hanged herself in her own bedroom at Dundee, on Monday last, 28th July, 1823, for the love she bore to a Captain in the Navy who deserted her, with a beautiful and affecting letter which she wrote to him the night before she did the deed.' The broadside was originally published by A. Jones of Dundee, and reprinted in Edinburgh.
Moral instruction was a common feature of broadsides. Most often accounts of executions would be used by broadside editors to warn people against leading immoral lives, and these frequently included dying speeches attributed to the condemned but more likely written by the broadside author or editor. In this broadside the suicide of a young woman seduced and abandoned by her lover provides the moral lesson. Here it is not possible to tell whether the suicide note is genuine or the work of the broadside author. Although suicides were less frequently used than executions for moral teaching, there are other similar broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This sheet begins: 'A copy of a Love Letter from a Dandy Clerk, in this city, to a well-known Mauntamaker, wherein he depones by his beben tuckers, (which he declares to be of the finest cambric) that he loves her above all the Rules of Arithmetic.' The letter is signed 'John Slink' and the sheet carries a woodcut illustration of an idyllic landscape.
The main point of this text seems to be John Slink's complete lack of finances despite his determination to have the world think he is of the nobility and well-moneyed. This he does principally through credit. Other insights into society are given, however, with the Botanical Gardens being mentioned: the dandy walks in them on a Sunday, and his lady was seen walking out with her friend there. Valentines and pieces of clothing are also alluded to.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.The introductory verse reads: 'Madam, Since I've fallen in love with you, I hope you'll 'gree to be my wife; / I'll give you all that you request, and we'll both live a happy life. / No, Sir, an old maiden I shall remain, tho' all the world should me despise - / A married life I should disdain, the truth for none I will disguise.' Although the date of publication is not included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was 'Published by W. SMITH, No. 3, Bristo Port', which is an Edinburgh address.
Illustrated with a relevant woodcut, this erudite broadside, written in verse form, comprises a lively Socratic dialogue between a bachelor (of undetermined age) and an old maiden. This dialogue is quite philosophical in tone, and centres around the bachelor's efforts to find out why the old maiden has never married - perhaps revealingly, the bachelor does not have to explain why he is not married. The playful dialogue then climaxes with an offer of proposal from the bachelor - a development that panics the old maiden. With the issue unresolved, the dialogue ends with the bachelor singing a song and asking the old maiden just to 'name the day'.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This sardonic broadside begins: 'MADAM, / The great love and tenderness I have hitherto expressed for you is false. And now I feel that my indifference towards you increases proportionately every day.' The letter was written by W. Geoff to Miss M. Wi[llia]ms. There are no further details attached to the sheet.
There are many of these anonymous love letters or 'Dear John' letters contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection - although much of their authenticity is to be questioned. Like many other broadsides, some of this songs appeal seems to lie in laughing at someone else's misfortunes, and the sardonic humour of a reverse love-letter. It could even have been a moral warning. Certainly there are other broadsides which detail stories of young women seduced by dashing cads and then left broken an pregnant.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A MARRIED MAN CAUGHT IN A TRAP, OR, THE LOVER'S Detected A LAUGHABLE DIALOUGE. Which took place in a Railway Carriage, between a Married Gentleman, and a Young Lady of this Town, which was overheard by a gentleman, who immediately committed the same to writing.' Included at the top of the sheet is an illustration of a young woman, and a man on bended knee.
What then follows is an account of the rather trite dialogue between Emma and Thomas, the married gentleman and young lady of the title. Although they are obviously conducting an illict love affair, the conversation between the two is passionless and stultifying. Whilst published and distributed as a broadside, this dialogue was probably intended to be performed to an audience. The use of humorous voices and facial expressions during the retelling would have greatly enhanced its comedic value.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'MELANCHOLY SUICIDE, COMMITTED BY MISS ANN BENNITT, OF THIS CITY, A YOUNG LADY ONLY SEVENTEEN YEARS OF AGE.' The broadside was published by R. Reynolds of 489 Lawnmarket, Edinburgh. The date of publication is not given.
The event described here is the suicide of a young woman who had been seduced, made pregnant and then abandoned by her fiancé, who is alleged to have impregnated another young woman shortly afterwards. Even as late as the twentieth century, pregnancy outside wedlock was considered to be a matter of great shame in some areas of British society, and suicides among women in these circumstances were not uncommon, as this broadside suggests: 'almost every newspaper contains cases of a similar nature'. Reports of such cases tended to use very emotive languge to heighten the sense of tragedy, as in this example: 'she found her suspended by her silken scarf, a lifeless corpse.'
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the report begins: 'From a young Gentleman in this neighbourhood, which was found near this place, this morning, addressed to Miss N.S-, a young lady belonging to this town, which will prove very interesting to the public in general.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
Although the title of this broadside claims that the sheet contains a love letter, albeit a curious one, the letter is in fact a spiteful letter of rejection to end a love affair. As such, it appears to be a rather unusual item to print, although it is true that no publisher ever went poor through underestimating the public's insatiable appetite for reading prurient gossip. Another curious aspect of this sheet is the short verse above the letter, which provides the audience with advice regarding how they should read this love epistle. In short, this appears to be a very strange broadside, and it would be interesting to learn how the audience of the day reacted to it.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Just Published, the True, and Genuine Copy of an Advertisement for a wife, which appeared a few days ago, in one of the Edinburgh Journals ; with Copies of the Letters received by Lawrance Scott, Esquire, in answer to his advertisement'. It was printed by Forbes, possibly in the early nineteenth century, and probably sold for one penny.
It is unclear whether this was in fact genuine and, if it was, why it was worthy of publication as a broadside. Whilst it is now fairly commonplace for people to advertise for a friend or partner in a lonely-hearts column, perhaps in nineteenth-century Scotland it was less so. Scott seems rather preoccupied with finding a wife with a small personal fortune. If successful this could have proved extremely lucrative for him, since a woman's property and personal fortune automatically became her husband's upon marriage.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This humourous story begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that Funny and Laughable WEDDING that took place in Crosscauseway, Edinburgh, on Tuesday Evening, the 15th March 1825, between a young Dashing Highland Lad, and a well known Old Lady of that place.' The broadside was priced at one penny and published by A. Turnbull. This is probably Andrew Turnbull & Co, a publisher based in Edinburgh's High Street in the nineteenth century.
The humour in this broadside is of the cruellest sort, especially if the story has any basis in fact. A young Highlander proposes marriage to an elderly, wealthy lady, then absconds with a large sum of her money, leaving her at the altar. The bride-to-be is presented an object of ridicule for her naivety and vanity in believing that the proposal mght be genuine. The would-be groom is a stereotypical Highlander, of the sort commonly found in satirical literature in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. He is impoverished, dishonest and works as a night watchman, an unpopular vocation particularly associated with Highland migrants to Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside letter begins: 'My Dearest Mary, / RELIEVED for a moment from the din of arms, with pleasure unutterable, my love, I dedicate that moment to thee; what signifies the fatigues I undergo, and the dangers I daily encounter, -- they seem a pleasure to me, when I reflect, that I do so for the sake of my bonny bonny Mary.' The letter is signed with the initials, 'J.T.', while the sheet was published by Thomas Duncan of the Saltmarket, Glasgow.
This broadside contains a love letter written by a soldier serving overseas in Holland, to his sweetheart back home in Glasgow. The soldier reassures Mary that the war will soon be over, and that they will soon be reunited. There is no way of knowing if, as is claimed, this letter was in fact written by a soldier who was serving abroad. Indeed, in their efforts to maximise their profits, publishers of broadsides were quite ingenious in printing sheets on a wide range of subjects, which would appeal to the general public. So it is quite likely that this letter was instead written by an author who was employed by Thomas Duncan, the publisher of this broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This love letter begins: 'Hast thou no pity for my woes? / Dost thou at me turn up thy nose? / I'll make my declaration first, / So read straight forward and be curst, / But if your heart to me incline, / Oh! Jump o'er every other line!'. This broadside was published by Menzies of Edinburgh, and probably sold for one penny.
The individual responsible for this alternative love letter has taken the opportunity to vent their spleen towards what would traditionally have been the object of their affection. What begins to all intents and purposes as a genuine love letter, soon descends into a single-minded character assassination. These sentiments were probably far more popular with broadside readers than if they were those of a genuine love letter. It turns the notion of the traditional love letter on its head and, in doing so, makes for great comedy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This sheet begins: 'Hast thou no pity for my woes? / Dost thou at me turn up thy nose? / I'll make my declaration first, / So read straight forward and be curst'. This sheet was published by Menzies of the Lawnmarket, Edinburgh.
This topic, anonymous love letters and 'Dear Johns', seems to have been a popular broadside topic, although the appeal of this topic is perhaps a little more obscure to modern readers! Duncan Menzies the Printer is known to have worked out of the Lawnmarket  between 1812 and 1836. Previous to this he is thought to have worked with Robert Menzies, a partner or relative.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This broadside begins: 'A LOVE LETTER, Sent to a Young Lady in this Neighbourhood.' The letter begins: 'My dear Miss Miller, The great love and tenderness I have hitherto experienced for you increases every day'. The reply begins: 'Sir, The uniform tendency of your behaviour from the earliest period of our acquaintance has inspired me'. The correspondence is between a Mr G. Lindsay and Miss Mary Miller, and the broadside was published by Henry.
Although the appeal of such broadsides might be hard to understand for a modern-day audience, love letters and dialogues between lovers were popular amongst broadside readers. Often given a humorous or slightly illicit slant, they were often more about what was not being said on the page than what was. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection contains a number of other 'love letters', including a rather novel one that makes use of hieroglyphics.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Long years have passed since we first met, / It breaks my heart to think of thee, / I am sure you cannot yet forget / The pleasant hours you spent with me. / Year after year glides swiftly past, / And not one word you've sent to me, / Clouds o'er my sunny path are cast, / My love has crossed the dark blue sea.' This ballad was written by Mr J Macguire of Dundee, and was to be sung to the air 'I'm lonely since my mother died'. It was published at 190 and 192 Overgate, Dundee, probably by the Poet's Box.
This ballad is narrated by someone whose sweetheart has apparently emigrated, leaving the narrator broken-hearted. There are a few unanswered questions raised by the song. We learn that the separation took place several years ago and that the narrator has not heard from his or her former lover since, yet the narrator is convinced the ex-lover 'cannot yet forget' the happiness they enjoyed together. Love lost was a popular subject for ballads, but often the history of the realtionship was recounted in more detail than in this case.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This narrative begins: 'Daughter of a respectable Farmer near Dunse who was seduced by a profligate young Nobleman - - brought to Edinburgh, and kept in the greatest splendour [f]or sometime and then cruelly deserted and thrown upon the town'. A bedside-mourning woodcut has been included in the middle of the page to heighten the drama.
This broadside recounts the tale of a country lass, seduced into an unmarried relationship and then rejected by her lover. As a result of her now unacceptable status she is forced into prostitution, whereupon she catches a fatal disease. Many broadsides and especially ballads show great concern about the seduction of innocent teenagers, although how widespread this problem was is debatable. There is also emphasis placed on the bad consequences of disobeying one's parents amongst many broadsides.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This ballad begins: 'She's all my fancy painted her, / She's lovely, she's divine; / But her heart it is another's, / She never can be mine.' The sheet was published by J. Elder of Edinburgh.
This well-written song focuses on a common theme of broadside ballads, and indeed of folk song throughout the ages: that of unrequited love. Alice has given her heart to another, and the singer is devastated. The ballad ends, somewhat pessimistically, with the singer accepting that he will die with a broken heart, 'for the love of Alice Grey'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'When first I saw young Jocky, / It was at - feeing fair, / Wi' his rosy cheeks and dimpled chin, / And bonny curly hair.' The chorus begins: 'So the ploughman lads for me'. It was written by John Wilson and published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow.
This is one of the few examples in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection where an author's name appears alongside a song. Whilst the publisher's name was often recorded, the author was usually omitted. This was partly to do with the lackadaisical approach broadside publishers had towards attributing work and also partly to do with the nature of the material. Many of the songs and ballads that appeared on broadsides had their roots in the oral tradition, whereby they were passed down through the generations, and, as a result, often bore no attribution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.