This account begins: 'The Broomlands church has changed its name. A stone has been inserted over the main door, bearing the following inscription: MARTYRS' CHURCH, Erected in 1835, by the Friends of the Church of Scotland.' Printed by Caldwell and Son, and taken from the 'Liberator', this account tells of James Algie and John Park, 'who suffered at the cross of Paisley, on the 3rd of February, 1685'.
This broadside uses stirring rhetoric to recount an incident that occurred around 150 years prior to its publication. Its newsworthiness lies in the renaming of the Broomlands church to the 'Martyrs' Church', and this has been combined with the intriguing and sensationalised story of the two 'noble martyrs', Algie and Park. Whilst the renaming of the church was topical and of interest to some in the 1830s, the printer was guaranteed to sell more copies by including the shocking details of the 'Martyrdom'. The martyrs referred to were Covenanters -  Presyterians who were persecuted during the reign of King Charles II.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'When valiant Bucklugh charg'd his Foes, / And put the Rebel Scots to flight, / Full many a Gallant Squire arose / And rush'd into the Fight.' The lyrics should be sung to the tune, 'Fortune my Foe'. It was published in 1679 for T.B. of London.
The battle of Bothwell Bridge (or Brig) was fought on the 22nd June 1679 between Government forces, led by Sir John Graham of Claverhouse (also known as Bonnie Dundee), and a party of Covenanter forces. Previous to this the Archbishop of St Andrews, James Sharp, (1613-79) had been murdered on Magus Moor, Fife, by Covenanter assassins. They had then run riot through the streets of Strathaven. The battle was the culmination of that riot and the ensuing chase.                                                                                                                                                                            
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'When stout young Jemmy went abroad / To fee the Northen Races / He met ten Thousands in the Road, / That swore they were his Graces.' A note below the title states that this ballad should be sung to the tune of 'York and Albany's Welcome to England', this being a reference to James the Duke of York, brother of King Charles II.
This ballad celebrates the religion and virtues of the Duke of Monmouth (1649-1685), and the Duke of Buccleuch. Probably written in 1679, around the time of the Battle of Bothwell Bridge, this ballad compares Monmouth to Jesus Christ and his father, Charles II, to God. This ballad should ideally be viewed in the context of the bloody events that led up to the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Monmouth was beheaded at Tower Hill, London, following the defeat of his army at Sedgemoor in 1685. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides that report on the actions of the Duke of Monmouth.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This early broadside begins: 'The Manner of the Barbarous Murther of JAMES, Late Lord Arch - Bishop of James, Late Lord Arch-Bishop of St. Andrews, Primate and Metropolitain of all Scotland, And one of his Magesties most Honorable Privy-Council of that Kingdom ; May 3. 1679.' Published in London for J. S. and B. H.
This rare and interesting broadside tells, in verse form, how Archbishop James Sharp (1618-79) was murdered by Covenanters at Magnus Muir, just outside St Andrews. He was brutally stabbed 16 times in front of his daughter. There is a fine engraving illustrating the  murder, and the text refers to it with phrases such as: 'See, how the Coach-man Tumbles from his Box ; And poor Postillion fell'd, like Fatted Ox!'. Archbishop Sharp's tomb is in the Holy Trinity church in South Street, St. Andrews.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This elegy begins: 'Right sorry were we all to hear of James M'Mourtrie's death, / Few cleverer, worthier, gude old chaps has death deprived of breath: / well known as 'Old Mortality' through all the country side, / He kept old gravestones in repair within a district wide.' The author's initials are given as 'D.S.' The sheet carries no publication details, but handwritten annotation above the title reads 'Kirkcudbright?'.
This is a ballad commemorating James M'Mourtrie, an old man who cleaned and repaired gravestones, and who was known as 'Old Mortality'. This nickname was almost certainly taken from the eponymous character in the first chapter of Sir Walter Scott's novel 'Old Mortality'. This character was an elderly native of Dumfries or Galloway who wandered southern Scotland, cleaning and repairing the graves of Covenanters who had been martyred during the reigns of Charles II and James VII and II.
The National Covenant was drawn up and signed by members of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland in 1638. The Covenant denounced Roman Catholicism and asserted the Church's independence from the Episcopalianism practised by King Charles I and many of the nobles who supported him. The Covenanters were drawn into a civil war with the Royalists, and many suffered during the 'killing times' of the 1670s and 1680s.Verse 1: 'Come buy my new Ballet, / I hav't in my wallet; / But it will not (I fear) please every pallet. / Then mark what ensu'th, / I swear by my Youth, / That every line in my Ballet is truth. / A Ballet of witt, a Ballet of worthe, / t'Is newly Printed and newly come forth: / It Was made of a Cloak, that fell out with a Gown, / That Crampt all the Kingdom and Crippl'd the Crown.'
This ballad is an attack on the Covenanted Church of Scotland, represented here by a black cloak. The National Covenant was drawn up and signed by members of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland in 1638. The Covenant reiterated the evils of Roman Catholicism and asserted the Church's independence from the Episcopalianism practised by King Charles I and many of the nobles who supported him. Ultimately, the Covenanters would be drawn into civil war against the Royalists, and this ballad blames the Covenanters for the eventual execution of Charles I as well as other evils done against Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: '"Noo, John Macgill, my elder, come listen to my word, / It's time to leave the harrows, it's time to draw the sword; / The sheep may wander on the hill, the stots rout in the byre, / But another path is ours, John, through danger and through fire.' A woodcut illustration of a man's head has been included at the top of the sheet.
In this ballad, John MacGill is approached by the local Minister to take up arms and fight in the name of religion. The Minister believes it is time to rise up again in defence of Presbyterianism. Reference is made to the defeat of the Covenanters at the battles of Rullion Green (1666) and Bothwell Brig (1679), where General Tam Dalyell and John Graham of Claverhouse, respectively, led government forces to victory. Both men had been appointed by Charles II to suppress the Covenanters in Scotland. Whilst John MacGill thinks it a worthy cause, he has no intention of fighting. The ballad ends with the Minister choosing to follow MacGill's example and remain at home.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.