This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ALEXANDER M'KAY, and WILLIAM M'DONALD, for Assult and Stabbing on the Streets of Edinburgh ; the former of whom is to be Publicly Whipped, on a Platform at the head of Libberton's Wynd, on Wednesday the 27th July, 1825, at one o'Clock afternoon, and to be afterwards Banished for Seven years ; and M'Donald to be confined in Bridwell for Twelve months, at Hard Labonr.' The broadside was published in Edinburgh by William Robertson, and sold for a penny.
Edinburgh?s Bridewell was situated on Regent Road, to the west of the Jail. It was different to a jail because attempts were made to reform inmates through hard labour. It was the last public building designed by Robert Adam (1728-92), and opened in 1790, at which time it held 70 felons. In 1865 the distinction between jails and bridewells was abolished.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside letter begins: 'Dear Parents, I embrace this opportunity of writing, hoping these lines will find you well. With respect to myself I have little to say: I have been most miserable in this unhappy land. I have suffered every degradation of life: insult upon insult have been heaped upon me; I have been obliged to associate with the most depraved of human beings, my master's men.' The letter was apparently written on the 4th of September 1831, from Jenk's Planation, Vandieman's, and is signed, 'Your unfortunate son, John Paterson'. 
Illustrated with two dramatic woodcuts of manacled prisoners boarding a ship, then of people working in a new land, this broadside claims to be a letter written by someone who, though originally from Edinburgh, was transported to a plantation in Australia. Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing if John Paterson was in fact the writer of this highly erudite letter. Whatever, with its descriptions of floggings, chain-gangs and frequent executions, the letter certainly makes a strong case for penal reform. Conversely, it could instead be argued that this sheet represents a form of social control, since it highlights the effectiveness of transportation as a dreaded punishment.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Very Particular account of the Trials of the different Persons who stood their trials before the Special Commission, which opened at Paisley, on Tuesday the 1st of August, 1820.' The sheet was published in 1820 by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside starts with a long list of the high-ranking judges who constituted the Special Commission that presided over this trial. The very fact that it is called a 'Special Commission', highlights the great sensitivity surrounding this trial. The charge facing the two accused men is that they were part of a mob that deliberately stopped production of a cotton works in Johnston, near Paisley. In short, the men are on trial for carrying out a strike. With a crowd of 10,000 gathered outside the courtroom, it is not surprising that the men were eventually found not guilty. The list of the jurymen's occupations reveals much about the main industry in Paisley at this time.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A WARNING To the public; being a lamenable instance of gronudless Suspicion. An account of the melancholy death of Mary M'Intyre who being innocently accused of finding and keeping up four £5 notes belonging to her master a Manufacturer in Paisley.'
This is an example of a news story being used by a broadside publisher for the purposes of moral instruction. Accounts of executions were often heavy in moralising, but this is a slightly more unusual case. The story is that of a young girl who commits suicide after being falsely accused of stealing money from her master. One feature that stands out from the story is the willingness of the police to take the girl prisoner purely on her employer's instructions. Today, firmer grounds for suspicion would probably be required.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of THOMAS HAY, for Stabbing Wiiliam Moffat, in Leith, on the 18th of July last, and who was, this day, publicly whipped through that Town.'
Although he did not actually kill anyone, Thomas Hay's crime was considered particularly shocking by the broadside writers of the time, as it was apparently premeditated and entirely unprovoked. In a reference that shows how efficient at communication the British newspaper and broadside media was even in 1824, Hay's crime is compared to that of the murderer John Thurtell, who was hanged the same year in Elstree, Hertfordshire.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'just published, a correct account of the Trials and Sentences of the different prisoners that came on before the High Court of Justiciary, this day -- Four Catholics for attempting to murder a man for being a Protestant, at Queensferry -- Janet Ferguson, or Charters, for Robbery of jewels, pearls, diamonds. gold and silver plate, from General Sir James Gordon.' The sheet was published in 1833 by Forbes & Co. of the Cowgate, Edinburgh.
This broadside is almost identical to the court round-up features that appear in today's newspapers. The sheet starts by headlining the most sensational court cases, then lists the more mundane trials and sentences. Theft and housebreaking offences appear most frequently in the list, with transportation being the sentence that is usually handed down by the judge. The aim of the 'Criminal Code' (known as the 'Bloody Code' in England) in Scotland was to protect property and to provide the Establishment with cheap labour - hence the transportation sentences for theft. the 'Criminal Code' in Scotland lasted from about 1660 to 1850.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A particular Account of the Trial and Sentences of all the prisoners who have stood their trials at the present Circuit Court, which commenced at Glasgow, on Wednesday 26th April, 1820.' This sheet was published in 1820 by John Muir of Glasgow.
The first section of this court round-up lists the names of the various prisoners, the assorted charges that they face, their pleas, the verdicts and, in most instances, the sentences handed down. Following this opening section, the sheet proceeds to describe in detail a break-in to a shop that occurred. Reporting this chain of events as they were portrayed in court, the writer goes into great detail on this particular case. The three accused were found guilty of stealing from the house, and were all sentenced to death. The aim of the 'Criminal Code' (known as the 'Bloody Code' in England) in Scotland was to protect property - hence the harsh sentence.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This court report begins: 'TRIALS & SENTENCES / Glasgow, Sept. 22d, 1823. - The Court of Justiciary was opened by the Right Hon. The Lords Justice Clerk and Hermand, when, after an impressive prayer from the Rev. Dr. Chalmers, the Court proceeded to try the following cases:-'. It was printed by William Carse of Glasgow and probably sold for one penny.
What follows is a list of all those who were tried and sentenced by the court on this particular day. It offers an interesting insight into crime and punishment in nineteenth-century Scotland. For crimes that by today's standards are considered fairly minor, such as theft and housebreaking, criminals could expect a lengthy stay in prison, transportation or even, in a surprisingly large number of cases, the penalty of death by hanging.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This court account begins: 'April 23, 1823?This day the Circuit Court of the Justiciary was opened here by Lords Succoth and Gillies'. This sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
The case of James Wilson and John Gilchrist's robbery of Mr MacArthur was covered on separate sheets which eventually grew into sequences, some of which are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Many of the convicted were sentenced to 'bridewell'. This was a new form of imprisonment and punishment, as the penal system was beginning to undergo reform. Bridewells were smaller prisons, with more organised regimes for petty criminals, idlers and troublemakers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court account begins: 'Of all the different Prisoners who have stood their Trials before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which commenced on Monday last, when / TWO YOUNG MEN / were sentenced to be Executed on Wednesday the 29th of October next, for robbery.' This sheet was published in Glasgow by John Muir.
This sheet details all the accused, their offences, pleas and verdict's, which occurred in the court on that day, with Edward MacCaffer and Peter MacQueen being sentenced to execution. The two most spectacular cases, however, dominate the headlines, with effective manipulation being employed with the words young, execution and robbery. Robbery would have resulted in the death penalty due to the 'Criminal Code', which was established in Scotland. This code gave paramount protection to people's possessions and then worked down.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Trials and Sentences of 37 persons before the Circuit Court at Glasgow, five of whom, Edward McGaffer, Francis Cain, Geo. Laidlaw, D. Wylie and Wm. Johnston are to be executed on the 29th October and 12th November , 1823.'
With the increased population and urbanisation of central Scotland, broadside publishers saw a niche in the market for public announcements. Broadsides would have reached a wide audience as they were intended to be passed around or read out loud. Audiences were always avid for sensational and compulsive, if slightly grim, entertainment. Despite this, W. Smith wrote in 1829 that 'It is usual after an execution, for the people to hurry away as if half ashamed of being there, or as if they were glad to get off'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This list of criminal judgements begins: 'Of all the different Prisoners who have stood their Trials before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which commenced at Glasgow on Wednesday the 23d April, 1823, when JAMES WILSON received the awful Sentence of Death, and is to be Executed on Wednesday the 4th of June next, for Housebreaking and Theft.' This sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside covers the cases of Mathew Turnbull, James Wilson, John Gilchrist, Catherine Harkness or Greenshields, Alex McDermid, William Murray, Peter Connacher and John McKenna. James Wilson was sentenced to hang for robbing Duncan MacArthur's house of some of his personal effects, whilst his accomplice, John Gilchrist, received a not proven verdict.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Of the different persons who have stood their trials before the Circuit Court of the Justiciary, which commenced at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 12th September, 1821, when one Woman and two Men have received the awful sentence of Death.' This sheet was printed by John Muir in Glasgow in 1821.
Ann Wilson or Moore was sentenced to death for forging an Irish Bank 30 shilling note and was to be executed on the 24th October. M. MacIntyre and William Paterson were condemned to die on the same day for theft although their accomplice Margaret MacNair was dismissed. More minor cases were judged for W. Cabbin or Manks, Kenneth MacKenzie and Andrew MacKay.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Dated the 8th of September 1840, this report begins: 'The autumn circuit commenced this day. The lords Meadowbank and Cockburn arrived in town about ten o'clock, and were accompanied by the magistrates, a detachment of police, headed by Captain Miller, with a party of Dragoons and the band.' This sheet was published by Carmichael, Printer, Glasgow.
This first part of this broadside lists a large number of prisoners who were found guilty of various offences by the circuit judges, with the subsequent punishments handed down to the guilty parties. Many of these prisoners are sentenced to transportation. Below this list is a sensational report concerning a man who allegedly poisoned his wife with arsenic. Completing this court round-up, is an interesting report of a Mr F. Geach, the son of an attorney, who committed forgery, only to find himself standing trial on a charge of treason - which carried a death sentence. Although the jury found Geach guilty they recommended mercy, so he was sentenced to transportation for 20 years.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account of court proceedings begins: 'Glasgow, April 18th, 1822. - The court has gone through the following cases: MATHEW WILSON, charged with stealing upon the 29th Dec. 9 silk handkerchiefs, and 15 yards of Queen's Cloth, from Francis Gemmill, Paisley, and being habit and repute a thief, pled Guilty, and was sentenced to 14 years' transportation.' It was printed by W. Carse of Glasgow.
The number of cases contained on this broadside suggests how quickly the courts in 1822 heard and determined cases compared to today. The broadside also shows how harsh the Scottish penal system was in this period. The majority of hearings result in lengthy periods of transportation for what would now be regarded as fairly minor cases of theft. Four other hearings involving theft or forgery result in the death penalty, and in the case of Daniel Rankine, this is despite the jury's recommendation for mercy on the grounds of his youth.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Just published, the Trials and Sentences of the different culprits who were tried this day before the Lords of Justiciary in Edinburgh, among whom were Walter Cunningham, a convict returned from banishment; John Sutherland, a baker, for theft; and James Graham for trafficing in bad coin.' The date given on this sheet is Monday, 10th December 1832.
This broadsheet offers a selection of the most noteworthy trials, and the subsequent punishments that were dealt out, in an Edinburgh Court on Monday 10th December 1832. It provides an interesting insight into the 'everyday' crimes being committed at this time, and the severity of the sentences that were doled out. All three men named here were sentenced to seven years transportation for various petty offences. Transportation was a common punishment throughout the 18th and first half of the 19th centuries. Originally transported to America, convicts were shipped to Australia after the American Declaration of Independence in 1776.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A particular Account of the proceedings on the State Trials, which commenced at Stirling on the 13th July, 1820. A state trial was very different from a criminal trial, in that it was a trial held for alleged crimes against the state - in other words, treason. This sheet was published in 1820 by John Muir of Glasgow.
This fascinating broadside reports on a state trial that took place after a group of Radicals, who had the audacity to demand their political rights, were charged with treason. Much of the legal argument reported in the sheet is taken up with what in fact constitutes high treason - this being the crucial element in this case, since treason was then a capital offence. The list of accused men also reveals much about working life in Scotland at this time, with most of the men being weavers. Tragically, the two ringleaders, Andrew Hardie and John Baird, were found guilty of treason and were executed at Stirling in September, 1820.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of Alexander Robertson, Alexander Archibald, James Dickson and James M'Millan, for breaking into the City Auction Mart, in the Candleriggs, Glasgow.' It is dated the 1st March, 1819 and was published for John Moir or Muir.
According to this report, after stealing a considerable number of valuable items from the Mart, three of the men absconded to Edinburgh where they were arrested on Thursday 8th October. The fourth man, Alexander Archibald, also fled but was soon tracked down and arrested. As detailed in this report, Alexander Robertson was sentenced to be executed for his part in the crime, whilst his three accomplices were 'banished' or transported for fourteen years. The records show that Roberston was indeed executed in the Jail Square, Glasgow, on the 7th April, 1819.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Senetnce of WILLIAM THOMSON, JAMES THMSON, and JOHN, FRAM, who are to be Executed at Dalkeith, on Thursday 1st March, 1827, for Highway Robbery.'
There were actually four men involved in the premeditated attack and robbery of George Dickson, a farmer from Dalkeith. The fourth, William Leslie, was very young and was spared. The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside describing William Thomson's last moments. It appears that James Thomson and John Fram were given a reprieve for supplying information about a murder that William apparently committed; certainly they were not hung on the 1st March with him.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of the Rev. Joseph Robertson, and W. Pearson, accused of Falshood, Fraud & Forgery, and of celebrating unlawful marriages, on Wednesday March 18, 1818.' This sheet was published by R. Lindsay of Edinburgh and cost one penny.
This content of this broadside is rather hard to follow. It seems that the Rev. Joseph Robertson was moonlighting and had started marrying people unofficially in order to make some extra cash. Hence the accusations of fraud and the forgery of marriage lines. His accomplice in this unusual crime was one William Pearson, a spirit-dealer. After their initial sentence of three months in jail, Robertson was banished from Scotland for life, and Pearson banished for 14 years.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of Allan Grant, James Kenny Stewart, Mary Muirhead, and Isabella Kerr or Gray, who were tried at Edinr. Before the High Court of Justiciary, for the Crimes of Murder, Robbery, and Theft, on Monday the 5th day of March 1827, and who are all to be transported, Grant for Life, Kenny Stewart and Mary Muirhead for Fourteen, and Kerr or Gray for Seven years.' No printer or exact date are given.
The four accused, 'violently, wickedly, and feloniously' attacked the shoemaker Mark Dow, at or near James Kenny Stewart's Edinburgh home. Dow died from his injuries. All four pled not guilty but were sentenced to be transported, probably to Australia. The broadside ends with character summaries: Grant was a hawker with a broken back, Stewart was respectable looking but had only one hand and 'The two females have long been known to the police as public pests.'
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A True and Particular ACCOUNT of the TRIAL and SENTENCE of JANET DOUGLAS, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 12th Day of October next, for Child Stealing!!!'. This sheet was published by the Booksellers, Edinburgh, and could have been purchased for a penny.
Janet Douglas was sentenced to hang for abducting her employer's daughter, in the hope that prospective employers would take pity on her as a single parent. There are other broadsides held in the collection at the National Library of Scotland, regarding women and the mishandling of children. It is curious to note that many of the women covered in this collection, were hanged for crimes involving children, such as abortion, infanticide and neglect.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'JOSEPH ALLISON AND MAXWELL ALLISON were charged with having on the 27th May last, at or near to the house in Fisher Street, Stranraer . . . attacked and assaulted James Mourne, or Morrin, or M'Morrin'. This sheet was published by Menzies.
Although there were many witnesses called in this case there does not appear to be a clear picture or a straightforward story contained in their statements. The outcome of the case, was that Joseph was found guilty and his brother Maxwell not - a little odd as, according to the statements, the two men were always seen together. Joseph was then imprisoned in Stranraer to await his execution. It would appear from this article that Joseph also had two sons, who were also involved, although to what extent is unclear.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of Thomas Hay, for stabbing William Moffat, in Leith, on the 18th of July last, and before his sentence is carried into execution he is to be lashed through the town of Leith on Wednesday 18th February 1824.' It was published in Edinburgh in February 1824.
The method of murder used by Thomas Hay would probably suggest pychopathic tendencies to a modern criminal investigator. It is claimed that Hay 'fitted up his inner room as a human slaughter-house' before going out with the intention of luring a victim to his house where an unprovoked attempted murder took place. In the report, comparisons are made to a notorious murder of 1824, carried out in Elstree, Hertfordshire by John Thurtell.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of John Thomson and David Dobie, carters, Gilmerton who are to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th of August 1830, for the Assault, Rape, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, and their Bodies to be given for dissection!'
This report about the Dobie and Thomson murder and is one of many covering this infamous case held by the National Library of Scotland. This sheet was printed for William Robertson, an Edinburgh Bookseller registered in the 1846 Edinburgh Trade Directory as having premises on Broughton Street. Often booksellers would commission pieces to be printed and then advertise the sheets in their windows. This would normally draw crowds and so could be seen as an early form of marketing and up-selling.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, the report continues: 'Of all the different Prisoners who stood their Trials before the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Glasgow, which commenced on the 11th April, 1821, when two persons received sentence of Death.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow in 1821.
The mention of the dreaded death sentence in the subtitle to this broadside would have been cleverly employed by the chapmen to grab the public's interest and thus increase sales. On reading the sheet, however, the audience would soon have discovered that it is in fact a court roundup listing many crimes and names. Most of the cases recorded here deal with theft, robbery and housebreaking, with transportation usually being the subsequent sentence. Sadly, one of the death sentences meted out is to a William Moore who, at only 17, is already a thief of some reputation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Account of the Trial and Sentence of Mrs. COCKER, who travelled the country with a show, accused of the Murder of her own Daughter, a girl about 9 years of age, in the parish of Kilbarchan, on the 20th of September last, by wounding her in various parts of the body, and afterwards throwing her into the Cart; she was tried at Edinburgh on Monday last, the 7th of June, 1824.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow, who is listed as working from various addresses in Glasgow between 1820 and 1836.
This broadside reports on a murder trial in which a mother was accused of killing her nine-year-old daughter, then flinging her body into a nearby river. Although the mother pleaded not guilty and the jury returned an ambiguous not proven verdict, the accused was held in jail so that a full investigation could be carried out. The reason for her further detainment was the behaviour of her six-year-old son, who had run away because of the mother's harsh treatment of her children. The family were entertainers, who travelled the market towns of the country to perform at fairs.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Of Two Men and Two Women before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 5th of this month, November, 1823, for the barbarous Murder of Mr John M'Clure in July last, as he was returning from Ochiltree Sacrament to Ayr, when JAMES ANDERSON and DAVID GLEN were found Guilty, and sentenced to be Executed at Ayr, on Friday the 12th of December next, and their bodies to be given for dissection, with the conversation which took place between them and their visitors after their sentence.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow in 1823.
In its attempt to provide the audience with as much exciting content as possible, this sheet moves location from the courthouse to the condemned cell. On trial were a collier and a weaver from Ayr, who, while under the influence of alcohol, were found guilty of murdering a man who was returning from a religious ceremony. After the pronouncement of the death sentence, the writer focuses on the demeanour of the men as they face up to the enormity of what confronts them. There is a strong emphasis on finding redemption and inner peace through embracing religion, and the sheet's ending is confessional in tone.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'Just published, an interesting Letter from Michael M'Cabe, now lying under Sentence of Death, on the Gaud, in the Calton Jail, addressed to Rebecca Hudson, Bell's Wynd, his Sweetheart, which is published here by his own desire.' It was published in 1833.
The letter reproduced here, apparently from a condemned murderer to his lover, is one example of a popular topic in broadside literature, that of last words or deathbed repentance. Sometimes broadsides on this subject might take the form of a transcription of a condemned man's last words on the scaffold, while others might be in the form of a letter. A common element is the cautionary nature of the words spoken or wrtitten, as in this example where McCabe exhorts his lover to renounce her sins and embrace a Christian life. It is not really possible to prove the authenticity of McCabe's authorship.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH AND DYING WORDS OF THAT UNFORTUNATE Potatoe Merchant and Mealmonger, Who underwent the awful Sentence of the Law, on Wednesday the 14th January, 1824, and his  body hung in chains on the hill of Ballengiech, for the abominable crime of Forstalling the Meal and Potatoe Markets, and thereby raising the price of Provisions.' It was printed by John Muir of Glasgow, in 1824.
Broadsides could vary in tone, and here the reporting is heavy in biblical imagery such as: 'your flesh food for the fowls of the air, and your bones bleached with the sun and rains of Heaven'. The portentous words are ascribed to the speeches of the judge and the convicted man, but it is likely that there was a certain amount of artistic licence on the part of the author. Broadside authors often assumed the role of moral guardians to their readers and it is even possible that the case described here is a fiction produced for moral instruction: the convict's name is not mentioned, which suggests he could be an invention.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Public Whipping of JOHN KEAN, for shooting at JOHN GRAHAM, a Cotton-spinner, which took place on Wednesday the 11th of May, on a Platform erected in front of Glasgow Jail, in presence of an immense multitude.' Attributed to John Kean on the 5th May 1825 and published by John Muir.
This text debates the degree of guilt and the severity of punishment which should be dealt for each degree. Kean was convicted of attempted shooting but because of the intent he was sentenced to hang - he is lobbying for a reprieve, however. The broadside editor's text on the other hand, reports how the Lord Advocate of Scotland is campaigning to have the punishment for these sorts of 'attempted' crimes tightened up.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'The last SPEECH Confession and Dying Declaration of WILLIAM TAYLOR, who was executed at Stirling on Friday the 28th day of May 1790, for the crime of housebreaking.'
Taylor's speech is intended as a warning to young people who have started breaking the law, that it is easy to get caught in a downward criminal spiral. Taylor's initial mistake was to get involved with the more 'dissolute' members of his profession. Before long, he had begun to involve himself in 'illicit practices' to support his drinking, and became an outcast in Perth, instead carrying out crimes in other towns. Eventually, these led to his arrest for housebreaking, and his death sentence.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This text begins: 'Now under sentence of death in Edinburgh. / If I had been contented, and carried on my trade, / I would have been much happier, and money would have made, / But I was hast'ning to be rich, and fell into a snare, Which I would tell to every one to make them all beware.' This sheet was published by J. Neil & Co.
Gilchrist, his brother William and another accomplice, James Brown, robbed the Commercial Bank of £5712, in total whilst it was being transported on the Glasgow-Edinburgh stagecoach. About £5,500 pounds of the money was recovered from the oddest places. The Gilchrist brothers had buried the money under a slab, which was surrounded by arsenic to stop the rats eating it. Brown on the other hand, hid his money in a gun barrel. Brown confessed to his part in the robbery, George was found guilty and William was returned a not proven verdict.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This lamentation begins: 'Come all ye night walkers a warning take by me, / Now I have received my sentence to die most shamefully / On the third day of August, at the head of Libberton Wynd, / You will behold my wretch fate, a warning take in time.'
Gilchrist was tried along with his brother William and his accomplice James Brown for robbing the Commercial Bank of £5712 on the Glasgow-Edinburgh stage coach. The thieves broke through to the boot from the inside of the coach whilst disguised as women. They were eventually caught when they turned each other in, and after witnesses gave positive identifications. George and William were convicted but Brown turned 'crown evidence' and so escaped punishment. There was rumour at the time that the heist was planned by another famous thief, John Wilson, who was also under arrest, awaiting execution. There are many other sheets held by the National Library of Scotland which give details of this case.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This ballad begins: 'IS their never a Man in all Scotland, / from the highest state to the lowest degree.' The text preceding this ballad reads: 'Declaring how he and his Eight-scoremen fought a bloody Battell at Edinburgh. / To the Tune of, Fare thou well bonny Gilt Knock Hall.'
John Armstrong was a border riever and moss-trooper, who also indulged in blackmail and protection rackets, as far south as Newcastle. His base was his home at Gilnockie Hall, near Langholm and although gentry himself, he owed allegiance to the more powerful Lord Maxwell. In 1530 James V rode out to administer swift justice in the borders in response to English demands and threats. He hung Armstrong quickly and with no trial, despite Armstrong's demonstration of loyalty. It is now thought that the circumstances were engineered by Maxwell as he received Armstrong's lands not long after.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This crime report continues: 'Contradiction of all that has been advanced [missing] he left the City of Glasgow, wrote [missing] one of the hulks.' John Kean is attributed as the author and it was published by William Carse of Glasgow. The story was sourced from the 'Glasgow Free Press', carried on the 2nd July 1825.
Copying or cribbing from newspaper sources was a relatively common occurrence in nineteenth century broadsides. Newspaper articles were longer and more detailed but due to newspaper tax too expensive for most people to buy. Broadsides were inexpensive and readily available but to keep them this way, stories were copied. There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover this case.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A melancholy Account of the Death of two Children, who were poisoned by a Man who went about selling Candy, at Portobello, near Edinburgh, on Tuesday last, in whose Possession was found valuable Articles, which he obtained from the Children in exchange for his Candy.' This sheet was re-printed by Douglas and Kent, Newcastle.
This sensational broadside tells the tragic story of two children who were accidentally poisoned by a Pied Piper and Fagin-like character, who traded Candy with children in return for whatever fancy ornaments they could lay their hands on. Asked by the magistrate to explain himself, it would seem that the candy somehow became mixed in some rat poison belonging to a rat-catcher who shared dwellings with the Candyman. Acquitted of the charge of murder, the Candyman was committed to trial for the handling of stolen goods. The strange fact that the Candyman is not named, lends a mythic quality to the story.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the report continues: 'The Cotton Spinner, who was lately sent off from this City for Botany Bay, and which was read in the House of Commons on Friday night last, giving the names and descriptions of the persons who employed him to shoot John Graham, and who gave him the pistols and shot. Also, the names of several respectable Manufacturers who were to have been assassinated, for which he was to receive £100.' The sheet was published in 1825 by William Carse of Glasgow.
This fascinating broadside offers its audience a glimpse into a murky underworld of politics, organised labour and political assassination. John Kean, a former cotton spinner, was publicly whipped and then transported to Australia for life, following his attempt to shoot John Graham. In short, Kean was a hitman, who had agreed to shoot several Manufacturers for £100 - about £4,500 in today's terms. Although the National Library of Scotland's collection contains broadsides regarding this sad tale, frustratingly, the whole story is not given. Jigsawing together the evidence, it appears that a recent Act of Parliament passed by Joseph Hume had affected the livelihoods of cotton spinners, and that they were taking direct action to resolve the issue.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Account of that strange circumstance which took place on Sunday night last in a Druggist's shop in Glasgow; the shopman and another person invited two young women into it, where after giving to them spirits, lozenges and powders, a most brutal attack was made on them in the shop . . .' A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published by William Carse of Glasgow, while the story was sourced from 'The Glasgow Chronicle' of November the 15th. Unfortunately, the year of publication is not included.
This broadside tells of a despicable crime that was committed on a pair of young women, after they had been plied with alcohol and chemicals by a druggist and his friend. To protect the identities of the victims, presumably, the names of the two accused men and the location of the crime have been blanked out - which appears rather strange. The effect of this censorship is that although the first part of the report is copied from a newspaper, the event still has a slightly unreal feel to it. The writer ends his report by stating that the druggist and his companion were each fined £5.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the trial of eight Soldiers belonging to Breadalbane Regiment of Fencibles, for a mutiny in the city of Glasgow, four of whom received sentence of death, three of which received a pardon at the place of execution, and the fourth was shot on Tuesday the 27th day of January 1795'.
The tone of this report has a remarkably modern journalistic style to it. It transpires that one member of the regiment was imprisoned, for a military contravention, and his colleagues, who appear to have been mainly private soldiers, disagreed with decision. They then threatened the soldiers on guard duty and mutinied. It did not go their way, however, as the Lord Commander-in-Chief for Scotland surrounded the city and arrested them. The report not only conveys the facts but also the scale of the operation and the ripple effects of this small demonstration.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This public notice begins: 'Edinburgh, Monday, 1st March 1841. / GRACE ANDERSON, a servant in the British Hotel, Queen Street, pled Guilty to the Concealment of Pregnancy'. It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh.
It was common for the court cases of that day, their outcomes and their dramas, to be reported on broadsides as a matter for common interest. Broadsides were amongst some of the most immediate communications of their day. Here, a further five cases are reported, those of Mary Hunter, Donald McLeod, Peter Kerr or Carr, John Runciman and the co-operative theft by Mary Anne Cairns, Thomas Purves and his wife Martha. It is also curious to note that a gap has been left in the typeset for the date to be written in by hand. Perhaps to try and delude the public that the information is bang up-to-date!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This ballad begins with the chorus: 'Heather Jock's noo awa, / Heather Jock's noo awa, / The muircock noo may crousely craw, / Since Heather Jock's noo awa.' The opening line of verse one reads: 'Heather Jock was stark and grim'.
Unlike many broadside ballads, this song starts with the chorus rather than verse one. The ballad appears to be dedicated to a young man called Heather Jock, who, judging from various episodes listed by the narrator, seems to have indulged in poaching and a little pilfering. Certainly, the ballad depicts him as a bit of a rogue. However, Heather Jock meets his nemesis in the shape of a stern  judge, who punishes his poaching by sentencing him to transportation to Botany Bay, Australia.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first verse begins: 'Heather Jock was stark and grim, / Faught wi' a' would fecht wi' him; / Swauk and supple, sharp and thin, / Fine for gaun against the win''. 'Swack' in this instance probably means 'nimble' or 'agile'. The chorus reads: 'Heather Jock's noo awa, / Heather Jock's noo awa, / The muircock noo may crously craw, / Since Heather Jock's noo awa.' 'Crously' is Scots for 'proudly' or 'boldly'.
Heather Jock appears to have been quite a character. Although he was apparently transported to Botany Bay for a string of illegal exploits, this ballad remembers Jock rather fondly - immortalising him as a naughty but lovable rogue. There are many ballads in the National Library of Scotland's collection that recount the trials and tribulations of both fictional and very real characters from Scotland's past.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This lamentation begins: 'MORTALS on various projects bent, / Attend the mournful cry, / Nor scorn the melancholy plaint / Of him condemn'd to die.' It was printed by Thomas Duncan, of the Saltmarket in Glasgow.
It is unlikely that this 'lamentation' was really written by Peter Gray. Lamentations of the condemned were common topics in broadsides, following a typical formula that involved renouncing sin, repenting and asking for God's and the public's forgiveness. The ghost-writers were probably broadside journalists, or else churchmen who had attended the condemned. The melodramatic title of this example suggests that its author had higher poetic ambitions.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of court proceedings begins: 'Account of the Trial and Sentence of the various Prisoners who have appeared at the Bar of Justiciary since it opened on Tuesday last.' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow, in 1833.
The reporting of court proceedings was a fairly common subject for a broadside. Typically, these would be reported much as they might be in a local newspaper today, as a list of prisoners with the relevant charges. It is significant, however, that far more detail here is devoted to a charge of murder than to any other case: murders were always of great public interest. The Saltmarket area, close to where the Court sat, was Scotland's largest production centre for broadsides, and this one was produced by one of its best known printers, William Carse.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news story begins: 'An account of a Gauger's Travels betwixt Edinburgh and Gilmerton, after Smuggled Whisky. His meeting with a party of Colliers, who conveyed him to the bottom of a Coal Pit ; the awful Dream he had while in the pit : with the curious Trial, and Sentence given by the Colliers.' This sheet was published by Robert Martin.
Robert Martin worked in the Edinburgh book and print trade between 1830 and 1850, and it can be assumed that this sheet was published during this period. A gauger was the customs official who was responsible for measuring the liquor capacity of imported barrels so that the tax could be worked out correctly. In 1823 the Duke of Gordon successfully initiated the 'Excise Act' to try and eradicate illegal whisky production, but in 1834 692 illicit stills were recorded in Scotland.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the report continues: ' . . . of five whiteboys, who were hanged at Newcastle, in the county of Limerick, on Monday the 7th of January, 1822. Also, their Address from the Scaffold to their deluded fellow-country-men. With an account of their funeral procession from the place of Execution to Croppies Hole, where they were buried by the Public Authorities.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow, and the story was sourced from 'The Limerick Chronicle'.
This fascinating broadside describes the executions of five 'whiteboys', who were, presumably, sentenced to death for committing various offences under the Whiteboy Act of 1765. A Whiteboy was a member of an organisation first formed in County Tipperary around 1761, for the purpose of redressing grievances. Members of this movement wore white shirts and committed agrarian sabotage during the night. Most of the text focuses on what the men said while on the scaffold and how they conducted themselves. The sheet closes by emphasising the sobering effect that the men's dead bodies had on passers-by.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime account begins: 'Just Published, a strange account of the proceedings of Captain Smith, the notorious Gentleman Swindler, who has taken in a great number of Noblemen and Gentleman residing in Moray Place, George Street, Charlotte Square . . . also his examination by the Sheriff.' This sheet was published by Forbes of Edinburgh.
There is no date attached to the sheet but the narrative reveals that Captain Smith, or Thomas Dickson,  moved to Edinburgh town in 1833 and so his capture and this publication must have occurred after then. This is a good illustration of how broadsides functioned. They were the cheap popular entertainment of their day, and as such dates and places were often not clarified. Publication was immediate and the topic was of common interest and so these details were superfluous.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Trial of ROBERT BROWN ANDERSON, and JAMES MENZIE, alias ROBERTSOn, before the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Stirling, for Shop-breaking and Theft, at Grahamstown, near Falkirk, who were sentenced to be executed at Stirling, on Friday, the 11th of October, 1811.' This sheet was published by Thomas Duncan of Glasgow.
Thomas Duncan operated in the Saltmarket area of Glasgow between 1800 and 1823. Among his speciality productions were court lists and execution notices. Due to competition in the area, however, he often used information from places further away. The most sensational verdict was that for Anderson and Robertson, who were sentenced to hang for breaking into James Russell's shop. There are, however, another four cases for this court circuit mentioned, as well as a list of those tried at Ayr Circuit Court, held on the 12th September.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH AND DYING WORDS, / Of John Stewart, who was executed within the Flood-Mark at Leith, upon the 4th January 1721, for the Crime of Piracy and Robbery.' This sheet was published in Edinburgh, in 1727, by Robert Brown of Forrester's Wynd.
Although no dates are given for Robert Brown, he did operate a printing house between 1713 and 1733 in the Forrester's Wynd area of Edinburgh. He seems to have produced mainly chapbooks and broadsides, especially on executions. Brown also produced children's books, which were another common sideline in smaller printing houses. The one fixed date is his marriage to Isobel Donaldson on the 25th October 1710. Isobel was of a merchant-burgess family, showing how business was transacted amongst mercantile families.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'An account of the Execution of ALEXANDER MILNE, who was Hanged at Aberdeen on Friday the 27th August, for the crimes of Stouthrief and Housebreaking. With the Speech which he made to the Magistrates in prison, and the address which he delivered to the numerous Spectators at the place of Execution.' 'Stouthrief' is a Scots law term meaning 'theft with violence (later only in a dwelling-house)'. The sheet was published in 1824 by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside reports the violent end of a young man called Alexander Milne, who was executed for housebreaking and using force on the houseowner during the robbery. After a brief summary of the crime, the author proceeds to describe the execution, paying great attention to the entourage of religious ministers that accompanied the condemned prisoner to the scaffold. Although, from a modern viewpoint, receiving the death sentence for housebreaking seems terribly harsh, it appears that Aberdeen was suffering numerous break-ins at this time, and had recently executed three men for a similar crime. Therefore, Milne had little hope of earning a reprieve.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report continues: 'Whereas upon Tuesday Evening last, the 19th Current, Captain ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, late of the 50th Regiment of Foot (commonly called Major Campbell,) a Prisoner for Debt, made his Escape from the Canongate Jail, Edinburgh, under Disguise.' It includes a description of Campbell and the offer of a reward, and was published in Edinburgh on 21st October 1819.
The offer of a reward would have most likely roused considerable interest in the escape of Alexander Campbell. Whilst broadsides were sold by pedlars and patterers who wandered the streets, the sheets often found their way onto walls in homes and public places, thereby reaching an extremely large audience. It is easy to imagine this pronouncement pasted on the walls of countless taverns and inns around Edinburgh. Even today, in some old buildings, broadsides are discovered under countless layers of wallpaper.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime account begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that Curious and Laughable circumstance, that took place between a journeyman Hatter and a sprightly young lass, on Monday 4th July, 1825'. The crime occurred in Mint Street, Southwark, London.
Ellen Newman was caught running away from the house which she had just burgled. During a bizarre set of circumstances she relieved Joseph Alder of eleven sovereigns and his clothes - all of which were returned to him, including the coins she had swallowed. There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which detail house breaking and robbery incidents. These reveal that the gravity of this crime, stealing gold money and good clothing, would have resulted in transportation at the least, although this was a hanging offence.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An Acoount of a most Brutal Assault, committed on a young woman, to the great effusion of her blood, in a field of the Glasgow Road, on Saturday evening last, May 22, 1830, and the Miscreant seized and lodged in the Police Office. Together, with further particulars of Murdoch Grant, Pedlar, at Assynt, and the apprehension of a young man named M'Leod, who was lodged in Jail, on strong suspicions of being concerned in this horrid transaction.' This report was sourced from the 'Observer' and published by the 'Inverness Courier'.
The first report on this page details an assault on a woman in the vicinity of Glasgow, while the second is a follow-up story about catching a murderer in the vicinity of Inverness. The first report although not of relevance to the local area, would have been sensational enough to generate interest and help sell the paper. The second story, a topical one for the area, would have ensured that customers were satisfied spending their money, having garnered information or gossip relevant to them. Broadside accounts, due to their style and content, were the forerunners of modern day newspapers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside story begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Dreadful Punishment inflicted on Mr JOHN SYM, a Respectable Gentleman in Hampstead, who was in a moment struck Blind by Lightning, for giving False Evidence against his own Servant Maid, by which she was condemned to Death, but was afterwards providentially saved by his voluntary Confession at the place of Execution.' The sheet was published in 1834 and cost one penny.
Although this broadside claims to be a factual report featuring real people, it is most likely a fictional story composed to encourage people to improve their moral conduct. The story tells of how a wicked master, after having his advances rejected by a pretty servant girl, tries to incriminate her as a thief. The day of the girl's execution turns out to be a day of judgement for the master, however, as he is blinded by a bolt of lightning, after refusing to save the girl from the gallows by admitting his guilt. As many masters abused their positions of power, the sheet is very much a powerful reminder that God is an omniscient judge who does not bear false witness.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This letter is introduced by a prose passage which reads: 'A Genuine copy of a most affecting letter sent by one of these young men, lately executed, to a young woman belonging to Edinburgh, with whom he has carried on correspondence for some years, with his dying advice and request to her, which is published with her own consent.' It was probably published in Edinburgh in 1824.
It probably relates to John Wilson and Duncan Fraser who were executed for robbery in January 1824. The letter is interesting in that it suggests that it was dictated to a minister who had attended the prisoner. Many broadsides of the time contained poems and letters directly attributed to condemned prisoners who were very probably illiterate, and it is often difficult to tell whether the prisoners really had any input.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, the report continues: 'By the unfortunate Men, now under Sentence of Death, who are to be Executed on Wednesday the 3d of November next, for various crimes, published as a warning to the rising generation, to beware of the first beginnings of evil.' This crime report takes the form of a ballad, the first line of which reads: 'O Hope! Thou sweet celestial spring'. A note at the bottom of the sheet states that it was 'Printed for the Book Cryers'.
Unfortunately, it is not clear what specific situation the introductory text and ballad in this broadside refer to. After the grave warning in the introduction regarding the deadly judgement that High Court judges can sometimes pass on errant juvenile behaviour, the ballad takes the audience into the higher realm of the celestial judges. In short, this broadside would appear to be a hybrid of crime report and vehicle for moral instruction - written specifically for a young audience. The powerful religious language and imagery that dominates throughout the ballad, reveals much about the nature of Scottish society during this era.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'POOR Tony, have you serv'd the Devil so long? / Debauch'd the Youth with my lascivious song; / I was your faithful Pimp, and stroll'd about, / To bring you vassals, and I found them out.'
'The Tragedy of Tony Aston' is based on a real case in Edinburgh, from 1728. Tony, or Tonny,  Aston or Ashton, was a strolling player who came to Edinburgh in the 1720s. He was promoted by the poet Allan Ramsay who wrote prologues for Aston?s performances as well as selling tickets for his plays. In 1726 Aston was denied a licence to perform by the Master of the Revels as he had failed to pay to the Revels office, the dues he owed them. Nevertheless he continued to perform until Skinner?s Hall (where he performed) was shut down. After a spell of litigation, Aston cut his losses and left Edinburgh in 1728. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Particular Account of JOHN WOOD, who is now under sentence of death at Perth, and is to be executed there on FRIDAY the 16th of July, and what is wonderful is to be tried at Edinburgh the day before his execution, for another crime, Housebreaking and Theft, and though he should be cleared of the second indictment, he must suffer the day following for his first offence, being one of the most singular circumstances which has ever occurred in Scotland.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow in 1824.
This broadside really does embody the dark concept of gallows humour. Already facing the death sentence for housebreaking and theft, the prisoner, John Wood, had previously received two stays of execution providing him with an extended six weeks of life. Astonishingly, however, Wood is to appear in court to face another housebreaking charge - the day before the date of his execution! To compound the irony of Wood's predicament, it seems highly likely that he will be found innocent of this second charge. Much of the second part of the sheet is taken up with discussion regarding Wood's religious frame of mind, while the last few lines offer sympathy and ask for an investigation into this most peculiar matter.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation is introduced by a prose passge which begins: 'An account of the Sorrowful Lamentation of John Wilson and Duncan Frazer, 2 young men, who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on the 28th january 1824.' The first verse of the lamentation reads: Though in a dismal cell we stay, / We think time passes swift away,  / We have not long to mediatate, / Upon our fast-approaching fate.' It was published in Edinburgh by the travelling booksellers in 1824.
The verses here are almost certainly not the work of John Wilson and Duncan Frazer, despite the attribution in the introduction: 'their behaviour has been most examplary and pious, as may be seen from the following effusions'. The verses, in simple rhyming couplets, follow a standard formula for lamentations, describing the misery of the condemned and their prayers and wishes for forgiveness, and warning the reader not to sin and to lead a Christian life. The author is likely to have been an experienced broadside writer.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report, sourced from the 'Glasgow Free Press' newspaper, begins 'Full and authentic account of the most Shocking Case of Depravity on record in the annals of this Kingdom, which took place in the vicinity of Airdrie, on Sabbath morning, the 2d June instant, by six Monsters in the shape of human beings !'. This broadside was published by Menzies, in Edinburgh.
Written in the usual outraged and indignant tone of crime-related broadsides, this example tells of a couple on the way home from Airdrie who were assaulted in a premeditated attack by six men.The husband was seized by two men masquerading as police constables, and taken towards the jail. Four apparently public-spirited gentlemen then offered to walk the woman home, but instead they assaulted her.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Some Account of JOHN SHERRY, who was Executed in [front] of the New Jail of Glasgow, on Wednesday the 1st of No[vem]ber, 1815, pursuant to his Sentence, for Highway Robbery, [on] the road leading from Glasgow to Paisley, on the 19th May'. The broadside was published by T. Duncan of 159 Saltmarket, Glasgow.
Broadside reports of executions varied in the details they chose to focus on. In some cases the process of the execution was described in minute details; others, like this, gave a potted biography of the condemned man or woman, and described the circumstances surrounding their crimes. The author of this broadside appears to be quite sympathetic towards Sherry, emphasising his piety, regrets and good manners after his arrest. Highwaymen were generally better regarded than murderers by the public.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This public announcement begins: '93 PERSONS / Persons?their Names and Crimes of all the Prisoners, belonging to the Counties of Lanark, Renfrew, Dumbarton, to stand Trial at the Court of the Justiciary, in Glasgow, on the 23d April 1823'. This sheet was published by Mayne and Co, Printers, in Glasgow.
Due to the increasing size of cities and the anonymity this brought, a niche was created in the publishing market for public announcements of this nature. The broadside audience was always avid for scandalous news which touched on their lives, unlike politicians or international affairs. Broadsides were intended to be viewed by a wide audience and were only printed on one side so they could be pasted to the wall. As a result many people would have consulted this information. Here the names of the 'panels' (the accused) and their crimes are listed.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A full, true and particular Report, as it appears in the Sun London Newspaper, received by this day's London Mail, of the Proceedings at the Northfolk Assizes, against Simon Byrne, the Boxer, for killing Sandy MacKay, in the great fight between these two Champions, together with the finding of the Grand Jury, not only against Simon Byrne, but against George Cooper, of the City of Edinburgh, Rueben Martin, Thomas Cribb, and Thomas Reynolds, as Aiders and Abettors.' This sheet was published by Forbes and Owen of Edinburgh.
This sheet is an odd conglomerate of stories some of which have been sourced from Irish and English papers. The Gilmerton murder, when Margaret Paterson was assaulted and murdered by two carters, is mentioned. The Norfolk case involved the Dublin-born prize fighter Simon Byrne being prosecuted for the death of his opponent. This fight took place at Salcey Green, Northamptonshire in June 1830. Byrne had previously defeated M'Kay in the ring. After being tried, he was acquitted for the Scot's death. In 1831 he was deafeated in a contest for the championship of England against Jem Ward. Byrne died in 1833 at St. Albans after a fight with James 'Deaf' Burke. The other account appears to be an Irish story about parents suffocating their daughter after she contracted rabies. Each story is introduced in the middle of the previous story - an example of early 'headlines' - in an attempt to keep the reader interested.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of a respite for fourteen days having arrived for WILLIAM GRIEVE, who lies under sentence of Death in Edinburgh for Rape, and who was to have been executed this day (Wednesday) ; together with a copy of original VERSES on the occasion.' Printed by Francis McCartney.
Priced at one penny, this is another broadsheet that begins in prose, but then transposes into verse. A crime report, it tells of the stay of execution granted to a William Grieve, who was sentenced to death for rape. However, the emergence of fresh evidence meant that the execution in Edinburgh scheduled for the 3rd of April 1833 was postponed, while the new facts were considered. The closing verses are written by an 'ingenious poetical correspondent', who tries to imagine the emotions that Grieve must be experiencing in his almost 'condemned cell'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This public information notice begins: 'A particular account of the proceedings of the Circuit Court Justiciary which was opened at Glasgow on Tuesday the 9th Day of April 1793, with the sentence of the criminals then tried.'
Agnes McAllum, Hannah Main and Ann or Agnes Watt were all called at this session for child-murder. Robert Mitchell was called for murder and James and John McKenzie were tried for robbery and murder. An interesting feature of this style of general report is the ancillary details which can be gleaned about eighteenth century life, such as possessions, trades and movement of people.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An Account of the Public Whipping of JOHN KEAN, on Wednesday the 11th of May, 1825, for Laiming and Wounding, with intent to Murder, JOHN GRAHAM, Cotton Spinner in Barrowfield Road, on the 30th March last, and who is to be transported for life.' The sheet was published in 1825 by William Carse of Glasgow.
This broadside describes the unleashing of a new form of punishment for criminals who were convicted of violent offences: the dreaded 'cat o' nine tails'. Before describing the administering of this sentence, the author stresses that whipping has been introduced to make the streets safer for the public. With the prisoner, John Kean, standing on the execution scaffold, he received between 80-90 lashes on his bare back before being carried away to prison. As the judge felt that Kean's attempt to murder a man deserved more than a whipping, the prisoner was then transported for life. The sheet concludes with a chilling warning to others regarding their future conduct - thus highlighting the social control element of broadsides.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Trials before the Circuit Court of the Justiciary, which was opened at Glasgow on Saturday the 8th of September 1798, with the sentence of the different criminals. / Also, an account of the trial and sentence of Robertson and Murray, who have received sentence to be hanged at Stirling on Friday the 12th of October next.'
The Glasgow cases covered on this sheet include the conviction of Athol Moon and Soloman Williams for culpable homicide and William Dron for theft. The Stirling case involves the execution of Joice Robertson and Murray for various thefts. This would have been an especially appealing broadside to buy as it not only covers many cases but also from different parts of the country. Bargain value, two for the price of one, at the cost of a penny a sheet.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This public notice begins: 'A particular account of the proceedings of the Circuit-Court of Justiciary, which was opened at Glasgow on Wednesday the 11th of April, with the sentence of the different criminals.'
This report covers four cases - Isabella Preston for child-murder, John McMillan for murder, David Wilson for embezzlement and theft and William Gordon for theft. The Lord Justice Clerk, Lord Craig's, comments are recorded throughout the proceedings and it is interesting to note that he often makes moral and didactic pronouncements on the prisoners. He also in this case makes a general comment to the court condemning the revolutionary activities in France. The effects of this event on those at the time are quite clearly expressed in this report.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Proceedings of the Curcuit Court of Justiciary, which opened at Glasgow on Tuesday the 20th of September 1791, with the sentence of the different Criminals, when two persons received sentence of death.' It is likely that this broadside was printed in Glasgow.
The circuit court is an itinerant court which goes around the country trying criminal cases; the one in Scotland is the Court of Justiciary. It is still held twice a year, and presided over by two judges. On this occasion, two of the jury were fined for non-appearance, and their names placed first on the list at every ensuing Circuit until they had served.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of court proceedings begins: 'Trial and sentence of all the different persons who have been tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which met here on Tuesday, 7th September.' It was published by John Muir, in Glasgow, in 1830.
Broadsides were a quick and cheap way to supply information that would be of interest to a wide section of the population. Particularly in the early eighteenth century, when taxes made newspapers too expensive for the working classes, broadsides fulfilled many of the same functions that today's local newspapers provide. This account of court proceedings from Glasgow in 1830 is a good example of  a broadside providing a simple news service. The facts are laid out simply and concisely, much as they might be presented in a local newspaper today. There is none of the sensationalism that characterised some of the more lurid broadside accounts of murders and executions.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court round-up begins: 'A particular account of the Proceedings of the Circuit Court of Justiciary, opened at Glasgow on Wednesday the 8th of April 1795. In particular the trial of John Gibson, for a rape on the body of Janet Wilson, and Allan M'Aulay for murder.' The name of the publisher is not included.
Starting off with the most sensational crimes of the day, this broadside provides its audience with a summary of the trials that have been taking place at the Circuit Court in Glasgow, during April, 1795. After naming the presiding judges, the writer proceeds to describe the crimes. The main case concerns the murder of a landlord by a mob of men and women who wanted him to open up his pub outside the licensing hours. After beating up the landlord (he later died of his wounds), the mob ransacked his house. Other cases included trials for murder and rape and an indictment for robbery.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'One Man sentenced to Death. / Trial and Sentence / of all the Prisoners since the opening of the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Glasgow on Monday the 27th Sept.' The sheet was published in 1824 by William Carse of Glasgow, who had a reputation for giving the results of the local assizes and for covering trials in Glasgow.
Just like the street-cry of a newspaper vendor, this broadside opens with a dramatic piece of news to grab the public's attention. Despite the sensationalist tone of the headline, however, this broadside is a list of the people who were facing court charges, and the various verdicts that were returned. Although there is a wide variety of different crimes and sentences listed on this sheet, revealingly, the majority of the charges are for robbery, theft and housebreaking. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides that detail the mixed agenda of Glasgow's Circuit Courts during this era.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'An account of the Trials and Sentences in the Dumfries and Glasgow Circuits, when Four persons werr sentenced to be Executed on the first of June 1825. Also, the Enecution of Mark Whitting and James Caines, whose grandfather was banished, his father hanged and himself the 4th son that has been hanged ; his only surviving brother was apprehended lately for highway robbery.'
In the haste to print the story first, and get the copy to the street, mistakes were not uncommon and this broadside contains many typographical and spelling errors. It is not surprising the printer remains unattributed! It is also interesting to note how much is made in this Scottish publication of the story of the felonious Caines family, from England, one of whom was executed in Gloucester the week prior to publication.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'O MY Blood boiles, my Spirit's all in fire; / Passion's in pomp, nor can the Flames flly higher: / To sie my Native Countrey gone, / And English dreg lay on the fun'ral stone'. No publication details have been included on this sheet.
Tony, or Tonny,  Aston or Ashton, was an English strolling player who came to Edinburgh in the 1720s. He was promoted by the poet Allan Ramsay who wrote prologues for Aston?s performances as well as selling tickets for his plays. In 1726 Aston was denied a licence to perform by the Master of the Revels as he had failed to pay to the Revels office, the dues he owed them. Nevertheless he continued to perform until Skinner?s Hall (where he performed) was shut down. After a spell of litigation, Aston cut his losses and left Edinburgh in 1728. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The report begins: 'Trial and Sentence of all the various prisoners who have appeared at the Bar of the Circuit Court of Justiciary in Glasgow, since its commencement on Wednesday 2nd May, 1827.' This sheet was published the same day, by William Carse of Glasgow.
The report lists the names of the accused, their supposed crimes and the verdict. Most have been found guilty and were sentenced to transportation. There is an interesting aside at the bottom of the sheet. James Austen, a condemned horse-thief, was, unusually, granted a reprieve on account of his penitent behaviour in jail. On hearing these glad tidings, however, Austen returned the bible and prayer book to his former captors saying he had no further use for them!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This court round-up begins: 'Ayr Autumn Circuit; The Autumn Circuit was opened in the Court House, County Buildings, on Wednesday last October 4 1848, by Lords Mackenzie and Medwyn. WITH A  FULL REPORT OF / THE TRIAL AND SENTENCE OF / M'WHEELAN / THE MURDERER!'
In an attention-grabbing style similar to that of a newspaper vendor, this broadside opens with a sensational piece of news to grab the public's interest. Clearly, terrible crimes such as this were very popular with the public, so the broadside focuses on the murder trial rather than reporting on the other crimes that made up the Ayr Autumn Circuit. Found guilty of murder, James McWheelan is sentenced to death. Upon pronouncing sentence, Lord Mackenzie proclaims, 'He that shedeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed'. This quote from the bible reveals the 'Old Testament' nature of the rule of law during this era.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'Trial & Sentence of all the prisoners who have appeared before the Court of Justiciary since its opening on Thursday the 18th of April, 1822.' The court was opened by Lords Pitmilly and Succoth, 'After a suitable prayer by the Rev. Dr Taylor of St Enoch's'.
This broadside was published by William Carse of Glasgow and offers an interesting insight into a fairly typical day in the Court of Justiciary in 1822. Over twenty people were tried and sentenced, mostly for fairly minor offences including housebreaking, theft and assault. The penalties for such crimes were often severe and could, at times, extend to execution. With the sheer numbers passing through the courts, it appears that many criminals were not deterred by the prospect of the death penalty.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Account of the proceedings at the Lancaster Assizes against the Rioters in Lancashire; when no less than 35 Men and 7 Women received the awful sentence of Death on Monday last, for destroying the Steam-power Looms; Also, the excellent Address of the Judge on passing Sentence, with the Names of the unfortunate Prisoners.' The sheet was published in Glasgow by John Muir.
Although these people were sentenced to death, in actual fact none were executed. Most had their sentences commuted to prison terms and ten were transported for life. These handloom weavers were desperate, and attacked the mechanised looms that were destroying their livelihood. The judge recognises their plight, saying 'There has been, God knows, a great pressure of distress in this country, but it cannot be permitted to individuals to carve their own relief'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Impressive Prayer ascribed, as delivered by James Campbell, to his fellow-convicts, before their leaving Glasgow Jail, on Wednesday morning 20th Novr., 1822.' It was published by Mayne and Company of Glasgow, and probably cost one penny.
It is impossible to say whether James Campbell did in fact recite this prayer. In a highly religious and moralistic society such as nineteenth-century Scotland, the sentiments contained in this prayer would have provoked a very positive reaction. Broadside producers took advantage of this and, in the hope of selling large numbers of sheets, printed highly formulaic last speeches and prayers that were full of repentence and religious enlightenment.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This list begins: 'A Complete LIST of the Names, Crimes, and Punishments, of all the Criminals Tried at Edinburgh before the High Court of Justiciary, this week, ending 18th March, 1826.' A note at the bottom of the sheet states that it was printed in Edinburgh, 'for the Booksellers', and cost a penny.
No-one seen by the court was awarded the death penalty. Almost all were banished or sentenced to 7 or 14 years' transportation. At this time, they would most likely have been sent to either Australia or the West Indies. It is interesting to note how much emphasis is put on the accused people's reputations. Such anecdotal evidence would be given no legal credibility in a court today.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside contains two reports. The first begins: 'A strange and comical account of Three Gentlemen who left Edinburgh, and sailed in the ECLIPSE Steam Packet for Belfast, and having large sums of money in their possession, they proposed to sleep in one room; when scarcely asleep one of them imagined he saw a man . . .' The report is not dated, but its original source is given as 'yesterday's "Edinburgh Star."'  Also included is an account of a 'DREADFUL RIOT' taken from 'a Belfast Paper'.
The larger of the two reports here is a tale of a traveller who raised the alarm thinking he was being robbed, and was then mistaken for the robber by his companions. The second is more interesting hstorically. It describes a fight at Maghera, Northern Ireland, between Orangemen and Ribbandmen. Ribbandmen, or Ribbonmen, were members of an Irish secret society that grew up in the late eighteenth century in opposition to the Protestant Orange orders. The name came from a green ribbon worn by members. The society was declared illegal in 1871, and this broadside probably predates that.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An ACCOUNT of the Dreadful MUTINY that took place on board the Convict Transport HOPE, having on board 291 Female Convicts, many of whom belonged to Edinburgh, Leith, Glasgow. &c, & &c when most shocking to relate 17 seamen, and 39 convicts were killed and wounded in the fight, as detail d in a Letter from JAMES MAITLAND, one of the Seamen belonging to LEITH.' It was published by A McMillan in the Lawnmarket, Edinburgh.
Transportation was the punishment of sending convicts to serve their sentences in overseas territories. It was introduced in the late seventeenth century, when most convicts were sent to the Britain's American colonies. After the American war of independence, Australia became the principal destination of the convict ships. Swan River, which is mentioned in this broadside, was a penal colony in Western Australia, and was the last area in Australia to accept transportees. The final convict transport left Scotland in 1867.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This list begins: 'Just published, a correct list of the 64 Prisoners who are to stand their trials before the High Court of Justiciary during the course of next week ; giving the names and different crimes for which they are charged, and the particular day on which they are to be tried ; taken from the best authority.  Printed by Forbes & Co., Edinburgh.
This broadside is a straightforward list containing the names of the prisoners, plus the crimes they are accused of, who are due to appear in trials at the High Court. Glancing down this list and timetable, there is certainly a wide selection of crimes, ranging from homicide to fugitation - which means to abscond from justice.Theft is the offence that appears most frequently. Broadsides dealing with crime were extremely popular with the general public, and always sold numerous copies.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.