This crime report begins: 'The whole Particulars of the Trial of Mr James Stuart, before the High Court of Justiciary on Monday the 10th June 1822, for being concerned in the Fatal Duel on the 26th March last, when Sir Alexander Boswell was mortally wounded, and died the following day.'
There are at least three other broadside reports covering this story from its occurrence to the acquittal of Stuart. Sir Alexander Boswell (son of the biographer James Boswell) was an active Tory politician, mainly in Devon, England, although he was also actively involved in Scottish literary life. He operated a private printing press from his house in Auchinleck and was involved in the publicly-funded Burns memorial. He also indulged in publishing anonymous lampoons in the press, which sparked this challenge. Stuart discovered the name of his satirist whilst taking action against the 'Glasgow Sentinel'. He then engaged Boswell in the fatal duel at Balbarton in Fife.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A true and particular Account of a most unfortunate Duel which took place on Tuesday the 26th March, 1822, at Auchtertoul, in Fife, in consequence of a Song which appeared in one of the Glasgow Newspapers, when Sir Alex. Boswell of Auchinleck was desparately wounded, and is since dead.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow. The report is not dated.
Alexander Boswell (1775-1822) was the son of the celebrated Scottish diarist and biographer James Boswell. He made important contributions to Scottish literature in his own right, collecting and publishing folk songs, founding a printing press and erecting a monument to Robert Burns on the banks of the River Doon. He also published sketches and poetry under the pseudonym 'Simon Gray'. The circumstances of his death inspired a scene in Sir Walter Scott's novel 'St Ronan's Well'. The National Library of Scotland holds other broadsides that feature this case.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A TRUE ACCOUNT OF THAT FATAL DUEL / Which took place on Tuesday morning 26th March, 1822. between, Sir Alexander Boswell Bart. and James Stuart Esq. in Fife when Sir Alexander was mortally wounded, and died on Wednesday.'
This broadside reports only the circumstances leading up to and surrounding the death of Sir Alexander Boswell, antiquary, poet and son of James Boswell, the biographer. The end of the account comments that James Stuart was awaiting his trial. This is a typical format for broadsides - a story being reported in instalments as the action happens. This feature is one which broadsides have in common with modern newspapers. There are other stories in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover the subsequent events.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'The trial of Mr. James Stuart who was tried at the High Court of Justiciary, for being art and part in a duel in which Sir Alexander Boswell lost his life?'.
There are numerous broadsides covering this story from its occurrence to the acquittal of Stuart. Sir Alexander Boswell (son of the biographer James Boswell) was an active Tory politician, mainly in Devon, England, although he was also actively involved in Scottish literary life. He operated a private printing press from his house in Auchinleck and was involved in the publicly-funded Burns memorial. He also indulged in publishing anonymous lampoons in the press, which sparked this challenge. Stuart discovered the name of his satirist whilst taking action against the 'Glasgow Sentinel'. He then engaged Boswell in the fatal duel at Balbarton in Fife.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Trial of Mr STUART of Dunearn, for the late Duel in which Sir ALEXANDER BOSWELL, of Auchinleck, lost his life, which came on at Edinburgh on Monday last, the 10th June, 1822, with an account of its final result.' The sheet was printed by William Carse of Glasgow.
This trial caught the imagination of the people, as James Stewart appears to have been an important man; many of his friends present at the trial were advocates and eminent people of the day. He was found not guilty after an eighteen-hour trial which finished at five o'clock in the morning. This was a unanimous, and very popular, verdict.
The reason for the duel was that Boswell, who was incidentally the eldest son of Samuel Johnson's biographer, wrote a satire called 'The New Whig Song' which offended Stuart who challenged him.This report begins: 'An Account of that Fatal Duel that took place, between GEORGE MORGAN, Esq. Banker, and DAVID LANDALE, Esq. Tanner, both of Kirkcaldy, in Cardon Den, on the estate of Raith; above Kirkcaldy, on the 23d August 1826, when George Morgan Esq. Was unfortunately Shot through the Heart on the first fire, and instantly expired.' The broadside, which was priced at one penny, also includes a shorter report headed 'Fire'. The publisher is given as 'John Gullagher', and the place of publication is not noted.
The duel described here is believed to be the last to have taken place in Scotland. David Lansdale withdrew his business from the Bank of Scotland where Morgan worked after Morgan had allegedly discussed Lansdale's financial affairs with another client. Infuriated by Lansdale's decision, Morgan challenged Landsale to fight. The duel took place in a field at Cardenbarns Farm, Cardenden, near Kirkcaldy. Lansdale was later acquitted of Morgan's murder at the High Court in Edinburgh, after a skilful defence by his lawyers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of a duel begins: 'Just published, an Account of that Melancholy and Fatal DUEL, that took place between the Right Honourable the Earl of Eglinton and Captain Gorbon, concerning a Lady of high respectibility, when dreadful to relate his Lordship was shot though the heart.' The story was sourced from the 'Greenock Intelligencer'. The broadside also contains an account of a 'Libel for Sedition'. It was published by Ale(xa)nder Dunbar of Edinburgh, and is not dated.
There are very few details included in this report, which was derived from a short notice in a Greenock newspaper, and it may be that the details are inaccurate. Alexander Montgomerie, the 10th Earl of Eglinton, was shot and killed in October 1769 during a confrontation with an excisemen and persistent poacher, Mungo Campbell. Although this was not strictly a duel, nor did it involve a young lady or a Captain Gordon, it seems to be the only record of one of the earls of Eglinton dying a violent death, suggesting that rumours surrounding the earl's death reached the early newspapers before the facts did. The incident features in John Galt's classic novel of Ayrshire life, 'Annals of the Parish', first published in 1821.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This entertaining story begins: 'Account of another DUEL, that took place on Wednesday last, 18th April, in the neighbourhood of Pennycuick, county of Edinburgh ; when one of the Parties was mortally wounded.'
This story is centred on the love triangle between John Clod, Peggy and Peter Simple - meaningful fictitious names! John and Peter's fight for Peggy's attention brings them both to a duel - where their friends play a joke on them and no-one gets hurt - and Peggy is so offended and shocked that she doesn?t get out of bed afterwards. The whole story is really quite funny. Information on the everyday life of servants in their society is also revealed in this text.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This report begins: 'Full, True, and Particular Account of the Disturbances in Ireland, with an account of the Horrid Murders committed there___also an account of the Duel which was fought last week between the D__e of W____n and L__d A____p.' The sheet was published by John Campbell of Edinburgh.
Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington (1769-1852), was the last Prime Minister to fight a serious duel. It was over his support of Catholic Emancipation. That duel, in which no-one was hurt, was with Lord Winchelsea, in 1829, about the same time as this piece. However, in the duel mentioned here, Wellington was killed and the opponent's last name doesn't fit.
The sheet goes on to report on the troubles in Ireland, which Wellington was embroiled in. It ends with a rather gruesome story, also from Ireland, about a former policeman who had lost his job after being caught in a brothel.  The resultant distress proved too much and he murdered his two young daughters by beheading them. He then killed himself.