This memorial notice begins: 'Who departed this Life January 20th, 1718. / WHY, why dull Poets of this canker'd Age, / Affright you young Beginners with your Rage?' The elegy begins: 'Why, why dull Poets of this canker'd Age'.
This poem, due to its lack of contextual information, is a little difficult to understand. The only real record of Lucky Gibson left for posterity seems to be this broadside. From some of the scenarios and language used here, it would appear that Lucky kept a 'house of ill-repute'. It is implied that now this service had been withdrawn from the community there would be a vacuum in the leisure market. Surprisingly for broadside literature it is not judgmental in tone.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This broadside begins: 'ELEGY ON LUCKY WOOD.' The elegy begins: 'O CANNIGATE poor Ellritch hole / What Loss what Crosses does thou thole? / London and Death garrs thee look droll / and hing thy head; / Wow but thou has e'ne a cald Coal / to Blaw indeed.' An epitaph has also been included at the bottom of this sheet.
It is believed this elegy was written by the Scottish-born poet and song collector Allan Ramsay (1685-1758). The subject of the elegy, Lucky Wood, is thought to have been the landlady of an alehouse in Edinburgh's Canongate. Although many of the elegies published as broadsides remembered prominent figures such as King William III and Robert Walpole, a large number also mourned the passing of local characters such as Lucky, a brothel-keeper.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first verse reads: '"O ring of which the ruby is out-fall!" / So sang Dan Chaucer in the olden day, / So sang he quaintly in his golden way / A song that sorrow will for aye recall.' It was written by Kelso Kelly.
This elegy lingers on the deep friendship that obviously existed between James Fleming Cannon and the author, Kelso Kelly. Whilst mourning the death of his friend, Kelly is reassured by his memories and the belief that 'Thy gracious presence, too, shall stay with me ; / The good dies not ; the face, the form may pass, / But ever ever clear as in a glass / The mind can mirror what sight cannot see.' To warrant this elegy and its publication, James Fleming Cannon must have been a well-known figure. Although he has since disappeared into obscurity, this tribute has succeeded in keeping his memory alive.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'WHY weeps Melindor in this sullen grove? / Throws by his Crook, forsakes his fleecy Drove, / Brush'd with bleak Winds, and perishing through Cold, / Whilst only proling Wolfs possess the Fold?' Below the title, there is a note stating that this is 'A PASTORAL sacred to the memory of that excellent gentleman, and noble patriot, William Nisbet of Dirleton esq;, who died October 20th, 1724'. After this note, there is a Latin quotation from one of Horace's works.
Employing a famous character from the classical myths, this erudite ballad contains a series of dialogues between the beautiful - but doomed - Adonis and an obscure nymph called Melindor. The alternating verses between these two characters contain many references to other characters from classical mythology, as they discuss the state of the world and nature. The ballad is dedicated to the memory of William Nisbet (or Nesbit), who belonged to the famous legal family who lived in the village of Dirleton, just outside Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This mock elegy begins: 'ALas, alas, quo' bonny Heck, / On former days when I reflect! / I was a Dog much in respect / For doughty Deed: / But now I must hing by the Neck / Without Remeed.' No publication details are given.
This piece, written from the viewpoint of a greyhound who has had a glorious career in coarsing but now finds himself on the scrapheap, was written by William Hamilton of Gilmerfield (c.1665-1751). This 'best Dog in the East Nook Coast' (East Fife) is to be hung. Though 'not too old', his usefulness is gone. Even today, many greyhounds are put down or abandoned for precisely this reason. The poem highlights the dog's good temperament and his devotion to his master, and seems to be saying it is wrong to terminate the its life.
Allan Ramsay (1684-1758) modelled his famous mock elegy, 'Lucky Spence's Last Advice', on this piece. The National Library of Scotland also holds a broadside of that poem in its collection.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy on the lamented Death of Alexander Cairns, who was barbarously murder'd on Thursday last'. The elegy begins: 'WHat dismal News approach our listning Ears, / Which fills our Hearts with Grief, our Eyes with Tears.' Handwritten on the sheet is the date 'Aug 15th 1728'.
Compared with the majority of other illustrated broadsides, which merely boast a small woodcut above the title, this broadside contains a large amount of illustrative detail. This detail can also be found on an elegy lamenting the death of the Rev. John Wilson. Whilst there are no publication details printed on either elegy, it is possible they were issued by the same publisher. It was common practice for broadside producers to reuse their, often limited, stock of woodcut illustrations.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Auld Reekie's Lament for John Kennedy, LATE OF THE EDINBURGH-CITY GUARD, Who Died October 1832, above Eighty years of age, -the best of which time he spent in Edinburgh. He was beloved by all who knew him, for his simplicity and kindly deportment.' The lamentation begins (sung to the tune of 'Johny Cope'): 'JOHN KENNEDY is e'en awa, / The best o' men we ever saw'. An epitaph has also been included, along with a witty anecdote involving the deceased.
Included at the top of this sheet is the coat of arms of the City of Edinburgh, along with the motto 'nisi dominus frustra' (all is in vain without the lord). To warrant this heartfelt remembrance, John Kennedy must have been a well-liked and popular figure around Edinburgh. As with many of the elegies and lamentations contained in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection, however, this once prominent and notable character has been forgotten with the passing of years.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An HABBIACK ELEGY on the untimely and deplorable Death of Robert F-----s Kirk Treasurer's Man, who dy'd November 3d. 1724.' The elegy begins: 'GREET a ye Bairns and bearded Fo'k, / Sic News would pierce a Heart of Rock'.
Although letters have been omitted from the surname, apparently to protect his identity, the character of Robert F-----s would have been well known to a contemporary audience. The 'habbiack' of the title most likely refers to the verse form that has been adopted for this elegy. Otherwise known as 'Standard Habbie', the first, second, third and fifth lines have four beats and rhyme, whilst the fourth and sixth lines are of two beats and also rhyme.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'AND has ald Death e'n come at last / and of his Craft ge'n Gray a cast, / Without Respect to Aull or last / For ought I hear, / Tho' he were Dead ther's no much lost / Nay find a Tear,'
This ballad is from the genre of mock elegy or comic elegy. Such poems became popular in Scotland after the huge success of 'The Life and Death of Habbie Simson, Piper in Kilbarchan' by Robert Sempill of Beltrees (c.1595-1659). This introduced the 'Standard Habbie' verse form used here. Mock or comic elegies were written on fictional characters and real people, both dead and alive. In this example, the comedy derives from the highly insulting memorial to the apparently deceased Gray, and from the inclusion alongside it of an angry response form Gray, who, it transpires, is not dead after all!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'GRAY'S ELLEGIE WITH HIS Own Conceity ANSWER'. The first verse of the elegy reads: 'AND has ald Death e'n come at last / and of his Craft ge'n Gray a cast, / Without Respect to Aull or last / For ought I hear, / Tho' he were Dead ther's no much lost / Nay find a Tear.'
This light-hearted elegy on a character called Gray paints a very damning picture of him indeed, and is accompanied by his own reply in which he protests his innocence over various allegations. Since elegies are typically a lament for the dead, Gray has managed a tremendous feat in replying to his! This particular elegy is written in the popular verse form known as 'Standard Habbie', in which the first, second, third and fifth lines have four beats and rhyme, and the fourth and sixth lines are of two beats and also rhyme. Gray apparently was a drunken shoemaker from Montrose.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'COME Citizens, and mourne with me a part? / The Righteous Perish, and few't Layt to Heart. / A Faithful Pastor is call'd now to Heaven. / Who was a shinning Light, whilst among Men'. Below the title, it is stated that John Hamilton was 'Minister of the Gospel in the Gray-friars Parish of Edinburgh ; and sometime, formerlie in Ireland'. The publisher is not named and the sheet is not dated.
This ballad is an epic song of mourning to a recently deceased minister, John Hamilton of Greyfriars Church in Edinburgh, who was clearly well-loved by his congregation. It would appear that Hamilton worked tirelessly for God, including a spell spreading the 'true faith' in Ireland. The reference to the 'savage natives' who live in Ireland is interesting. This phrase reveals much about the suspicious attitudes that then existed in Scotland, which was predominantly Protestant, towards a profoundly Catholic country.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'A / Funeral POEM, / To the Memory of the pious and learned Pastor, the Reverend Mr. Thomas Paterson, Minister of the Gospel at St. Cuthbert's, who dropt Mortality Sabbath 22. May 1726.' The elegy begins: 'Jesus the faithful Sheepherd of the Flock'.
The most famous St Cuthbert's Church is situated on Lothian Road in Edinburgh, and was founded sometime in the twelfth century. The fact that so little information is given about the Reverend Paterson would suggest that the publisher believed he would be instantly recognisable, as would his church. This lack of contextual information emphasises that these sheets were the ephemeral entertainment of their time, and were not seen as a permanent historical record.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'The Gillmertoun Vulcan gone; / Who hew'd seven Fire-Rooms in a single Stone: / OR, / An ELEGY on George Paterson Smith, Good-man of the famous Gillmertoun Caves.' The elegy begins: 'Ingenious George, at last alace thou'rt gone'.
George Paterson is thought to have begun his rock home in Drum Street, Gilmerton, in 1719 and finished sometime in 1725. He and his family dwelt there until long past his death probably in 1735, as the land was his by right. The whole complex consisted of numerous rooms, furnished with rock-hewn chattels, and focused on the huge forge. This was where Paterson eventually conducted his business from. It is now a tourist attraction open to the public as Gilmerton Cove.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This elegy begins: 'JEalous I am, Mourners are scarce adayes, / Time will have Period, ere Tears dime soe Eyes : / Admit the Reason never be so great, / The Signs of sorrow weareth out of date.' No publication details have been given, and the composition has been initialled 'M.M.'
The elegy is written in an acrostic form, where the first letter of every fifth line is boldly capitalised. Looking down the page, instead of horizontally, the words 'JAMES EARLE OF PERTH' are spelt. James was the 3rd Earl of Perth, and lived at Drummond Castle, his family seat. He died on 2nd June, 1675.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first verse reads: 'GRAY weeping vaults, and ever mouldering domes, / From whose worn sides the very sculptures die ; / In whose cold, dark, and ever silent wombs, / The dear, the good, the great, the honour'd lie'. According to a note under the title, Thomas Smellie was the third son of the late William Smellie, F.R.S. & A.S.S.
It seems very likely that Thomas's father was the famous printer and antiquary, William Smellie (1740-1795). Whilst there is a wealth of information available on the life of William, little seems to have been written about his son, Thomas. Yet, to warrant this elegy, Thomas must have been a well-known and respected figure by the time of his death.
Edinburgh-born William Smellie was a founder member of the Society of Antiquaries (1780) and Keeper of the Edinburgh Museum of Natural History (1781). He is perhaps best remembered as the editor and publisher of the first edition of the 'Encyclopedia Britannica' (1799) and for his involvement in the publication of the first Statistical Account of Scotland.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy On the never to be lamented death of Mirs. M'Leod, who was Execute on Wednesday the 8th of March, 1727.' The elegy itself begins: 'O Curs'd Atropus, thou cancard Wife, / I wonder what aild thee to draw thy knife'. Unfortunately, the name of the publisher is not included.
This song of mourning is dedicated to the memory of Mrs McLeod, who was executed in Edinburgh in 1727, for the crime of counterfeiting. Although written in a fairly elevated and erudite tone with some classical allusions, the ballad is very much a character assassination of poor Mrs McLeod. The last few verses of the ballad focuses on the interaction that occurred on the scaffold between Mrs McLeod and the hangman, Doctor John Dalgeish. Many broadsides such as this one are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'AN ELEGY / On the Death of the much lamented Reverend Mr. WILLIAM DUNN, late Minister of Kirkintilloch, who died on Saturday, November 3, 1798.' The elegy begins: 'Mourn Dame RELIGION! / sable garments wear'.
It is possible that the Rev. William Dunn, Minister of Kirkintilloch, who is being mourned here, was the very same Dunn who was imprisoned for three months under the suspicion of an alleged association with the political agitator and staunch republican, Thomas Muir of Huntershill. Whether or not he is, it is apparent from this elegy that William Dunn was a popular man who would be sorely missed by his congregation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'On account of the late unfortunate Fight between the Champion M'Kay, and Byrne, several great Battles has been fought in the city of Glasgow, with the Byrneites, and the friends of M'Kay'. The elegy begins: 'Has Auld King Geordie slipp'd awa', / Or Wellington, or Peel, or wha'. It was published by Carmichael and Graham of Glasgow on the 10th June 1830.
This particular elegy mourns the death of the champion Scottish boxer, Sandy (Alexander) McKay, who died of a brain haemorrhage on the 3rd June, 1830. His injuries resulted from a boxing match against Symon Byrne (or Burn), the champion of Ireland, which took place at Salcey Green, Northamptonshire, on the 2nd June of the same year. Although arrested for McKay's murder, following a trial weighted in his favour, Byrne eventually walked free. He was defeated in a contest for the championship of England against Jem Ward in 1831. In 1833 he died at St. Albans after a fight with James 'Deaf' Burke.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY On the late WEE GEORDIE MORE, a well known Character in Auld Reekie, who Died on Friday, the 18th January 1828, and was Buried in the Greyfriars Church-yard, on Sunday the 20th.' The elegy begins: 'Lament, ye wee men, ane an' a, / For wee, wee Geordie's now awa''. An epitaph has been included at the bottom of the sheet.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes a large number of elegies, many of which lament the passing of local characters such as Wee Geordie. Whilst these individuals were obviously popular enough to warrant an elegy or lamentation, they have since been forgotten with the passing of years. It is obvious from this elegy that Wee Geordie was a familiar sight around Edinburgh, and was going to be sorely missed by many. In fact, an illustration of Geordie appears on another broadside advertising Mr Percival's Edinburgh-based artists' studio.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'AN / ELEGY / On the Reverend Doctor JOHN GILLIES, one of the Ministers of Glasgow who died in the 84th year of his Age, and the 54th year of his Ministry.' The elegy begins: 'The Saint is gone - - to all who knew him dear'.
It is known that the Dr Rev. John Gillies published two volumes of historical information, but only because the more famous Dr Rev. John Erskine (1721-1803) published a supplement to the works. From these volumes it can be discerned that John Gillies was an advocate of 'faith through love'. Many of the people presented in elegies are largely untraceable, which reflects the purpose of broadsides - to convey up-to-date, topical news of interest to the community.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY On the deplorable Death of Elizabeth Murray Sister to Sir William Murray of Newtoun barb'rously murdered by her Husband Thomas Kincaid younger of Gogar-Mains, March 29th 1723.' The elegy begins: 'As there are fatal Times when Nature's sighs, / And noxious Reeks from Earth eclipse the Skies'. An epitaph has also been included at the bottom of the page.
Interestingly, there is a handwritten note along the edge of the sheet that reads: 'Lord give me wisdom to direct my ways / David Robin'. This does not appear to be related in any way to the elegy, and was possibly written by the purchaser. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes a large number of elegies. Whilst some lament the passing of high-profile figures, who are still remembered in the history books of today, a large proportion remember those who, with the passing of years, have since been forgotten.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY On the much lamented Death of merry Maggie Wilson, Poultry-Wife in Edinburgh'. The elegy begins: 'WALLiwafaw your Fingers, Death, / That stappit Maggie Wilson's Breath; / Had I been ye, I'd been right leath, / And wae to fell her.' According to a note under the title, it was 'done by Rorie Pringle Drawer in the Tolbooth.'
Edinburgh's Old Tolbooth, once situated close to St Giles' Cathedral on the High Street, is believed to have been the main home of the Scottish parliament until the early seventeenth century. It also housed the town council and burgh court, and acted as the main prison for Edinburgh and its environs. Towards the end of the eighteenth and early nineteenth century it was primarily used as a prison. Sadly, the building, commonly known as the 'Heart of Midlothian', was demolished in 1817, but a heart-shaped design on the pavement marks the location of the entrance.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'Elegy, Upon the much to be Lamented Death of Sir Robert Blackwood, late Provost in Edinburgh. Who departed this Life Aprile the 24th 1720.' The elegy begins: 'OH! Death, Thou Conquerour of Men, / Does Thou intend ALL to govern?' According to a note under the title, Sir Robert Blackwood died on the 24th April 1720.
It appears from this elegy that Robert Blackwood was sorely missed by the people of Edinburgh: 'Why should not Edinburgh with Tears be / For Loss of Him, who was their Stay and Shield. / For the Town's Good, and Trade's was still his Aim / And Charitable to All, who unto him did come.' The National Libray of Scotland's broadside collection also includes elegies on such notable figures as King William III (William of Orange); John Hamilton, Lord Belhaven; David, Earl of Wemyss and Lord Alexander Ross, Bishop of Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The memorial notice begins: ' ELEGY / On the much to be lamented Death, / OF / Lord Alexander Ross, Bishop of Edinburgh. / Who departed this Life March the 27th 1720'. The elegy begins: 'OH Cruel Death, what's thy Rage or Intent? / To robe the Church, or make in her such Rent? / Could nothing pasify thy Rage but he, / Who was a Patron of a high Degree?'
Eighteenth-century broadside elegies such as this one, used death as a public occasion for restating and reinforcing values of the community. The dead most often provided a moral lesson, serving either as an example of a good Christian death or as a warning to sinners. Bishop Ross is obviously in the former category and is hailed for his piety and humility.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This elegy begins: 'AH! Fatal Stroak, That from us has remov'd / A Peer, and Patriot, justly well belov'd. / By King and People, as he well deserv'd, / Because he both Unbayas'dly has served'. In common with many broadside elegys, this piece is surrounded by a thick black border. No publication details are given, although we are told that the Earl died on March 13th, 1720.
David, 3rd Earl of Wemyss (b. 1678) married Anne Douglas in 1697 and they had two children, David and James. He remarried, to Mary Robinson, in 1708, and took a third wife, Elizabeth Sinclair, in 1716. They had two children together, Elizabeth and Margaret.
The family name, Wemyss, began with John MacDuff, who was made Earl of Wemyss in 1056 by Malcolm III of Scotland. 'Wemyss' is the Gaelic word for the coves that indented the east coast of Scotland.The memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY, On the deplorable Death of Margaret Hall, barbarously murder'd by her Husband Nicol Mushet of Boghall, Monday Night the 17 October 1720, in the 17th Year of her Age.' The elegy, which follows, begins: 'All Hearts be swell'd with Grief, with Tears all Eyes'. No publication details are given.
Nicol Mushet or Muschett, Laird of Boghall, killed his wife by stabbing her, and was hanged in Edinburgh's Grassmarket in 1721. The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside relating to this case, 'Elegy on the Death of Nicol Muschet of Boghall', which gives a little more information regarding Muschet's fall from grace. As is common in tales of this sort, it appears alcohol and women were viewed as to blame for this terrible crime.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The title reads: 'Elegy / ON THE / Death of Nicol Muschet of Boghall / Written, at the Desire of his Friends'. The elegy begins: 'The highest Pitch of Sorrow swells my Heart, / And dictates Words, without the Strokes of Art: / In moving Notes, cloath'd with a natural Rhyme, / I'll sing his Suff'rings, and his impious Crime'. No publication details are given.
Nicol Muschet or Mushett, Laird of Boghall, killed his wife, Margaret Hall, in October 1721, and was hanged at Edinburgh's Grassmarket in the same year. This poem tells the story of Muschet's demise and of his eventual repentance before God, serving as a warning to others not to take 'polluted Paths, which lead t'eternal fire'. The National Library of Scotland holds other broadsides relating to this case.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'Elegy / N / The much to be Lamented Death, / OF / LOYAL MARGARET / Who Departed this Life June the 6th 1717.' The elegy begins: 'Ye Loyalists your weeds put on, / Of Sable black, sure Marks of moan'.
Very little contextual information has been included on this sheet, which reinforces the fact the these sheets were the ephemeral notices and information of their day. The publisher here assumes prior public knowledge of the person and the situation. It is difficult now to tell who 'loyal Margaret' was, as she would have lived through one of the greatest periods of civil and political unrest. She may even have simply been a literary motif.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy On the Death of that Illustrious Monarch William the Third, Late King of Scotland, England, France, and Ireland, who departed this Life at His Palace at Kensington, on Sunday the 8th Day of March, 1702 in the 52 Year of His Age, 4 Months and 5 Days; And the 14th Year of His Reign.' The elegy begins: 'Alas! 'tis so ; No virtue can withstand / The pale-fac'd Conquerors all-subjecting hand'. The elegy was written by the Reverend Dr Burnet.
An epitaph has also been included at the bottom of this sheet. It begins: 'HERE underneath this tomb doth WILLIAM lie, / The Bravest Monarch that on earth cou'd Dye'. This particular broadside was published in 1702 by the Edinburgh-based 'Heirs and Successors of Andrew Anderson, Printer to the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty'.
King William III (r. 1689-1702), also known as William of Orange, was joint sovereign of Great Britain along with his wife Queen Mary II, daughter of King James II. Following the overthrow of James II during the Glorious Revolution (1688), when opponents of the King's pro-Catholic and absolutist policies forced him to flee to France, William and Mary, both Protestants, were established on the throne. William is perhaps best remembered for defeating James II at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690.This memorial notice begins: 'The moeh to be Lamented Death of Commissioner Kello, who departed this Life the 2d. Of October 1716.' The elegy begins: 'Abimlech a Champion Bold and Stout, / Had by a Woman all his Brains Dash'd out'.
Further information on Commissioner Kello is, unfortunately, not easily traceable. The fact that his name and date of death is recorded suggests that he may have been well known at the time, although these sheets also functioned as a means of entertainment. Three analogies are drawn in the text with Abimlech, Cicero and Holofernes. It is implied that these four men shared a fate in common - dying at the hand of disreputable women.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'Upon Exceeding much to be Lamented Death of the Illustrious Princess ANNE Dutches of HAMILTON, Who Departed this Life the 16th of October 1716, in the 96th. Year of her Age'. This Elegy begins: 'This Noble Princess of Immortal Fame, / An Ornament unto the Christian Name'.
Anne Douglas-Hamilton, 1st Duchess of Hamilton, was born in 1632, to the 1st Duke of Hamilton and his wife. She was the only child to survive her father and eventually became duchess in her own right when her uncle, the 2nd Duke of Hamilton, died heir-less. A formidable and energetic woman, Anne engineered the successful petition for her husband, William Douglas, to be given the Hamilton title. She was responsible for building Hamilton Palace, although she was evicted from this home by Oliver Cromwell. Anne died in 1716, just months after visiting her second favourite residence at Strathaven, Lanarkshire.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy On the much to be Lamented Death, of the Reverend, Mr Joseph Foord. Minister of the Gospel at Edinburgh, who Departed this Life July the 15th, 1719. In the 26th, Year of his Age.' The elegy begins: 'O Death, why Tyrranisest thou in they Might? / Why so sever, to strick so choice a Weight?'
Whilst numerous elegies were published lamenting the deaths of such high-profile figures as kings and queens, politicians and national heroes, this broadside indicates that elegies for lesser-known local figures also proved popular amongst the public. As a minister in Edinburgh, Joseph Foord would have known a relatively large number of people who, upon his tragic death, would have been only too willing to part with a penny and purchase this elegy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'Elegy on The Deplorable Death of the Right Honourable John, Lord Belhaven, who was lost at sea, on the 10th of Nov. 1721.' The elegy begins: 'Let Scotia's Sons in fable Weeds appear, / Sigh every Soul, and drop a fun'ral Tear'. A note informs the reader that this elegy was written by a Mr Pennecuik, most likely Alexander Pennecuik. The additional text at the bottom of the sheet begins: 'Old Sathan, England's Friend, Our Foe, / Contriv'd BELHAVEN's Overthrow'.
The Scottish statesman John, Lord Belhaven is perhaps best remembered for a rousing speech he made to the Scottish parliament in 1706, denouncing the prospect of a union with the English parliament. Despite his protests, and those of many others, the Act of Union was passed the following year. Belhaven is also known to have had interests in the Company of Scotland Trading to Africa and the Indies, founded in 1695. They were responsible for the disastrous Darien Scheme (1698-9), which heightened tensions with England and left Scotland financially crippled.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY ON Sandy M'kay, LATE THE SCOTCH CHAMPION!' Verse 1: 'Has auld King Geordie slipp'd awa', / Or Wellington, or Peel, or wha, / Sae mony tears are seen ta fa', / Frae ilk ane's head? / A better man than any twa - / Scotch Sandy's dead.' A note at the foot of this sheet states it was 'Printed for the Stationers' in Edinburgh.
This ballad is a song of mourning that pays tribute to a Scotsman called Sandy McKay (or M'Kay).  He was a Scottish heavyweight boxer called Alexander 'Sandy' McKay who, tragically, died in the ring while fighting the champion, Simon Byrne, at Salcey Green, Northamptonshire, in June 1830. This was the second meeting between M'Kay and Byrne - the former had lost the first bout. Byrne was tried and acquitted for the Scot's death. Byrne from Dublin was also to die 'in the ring' after a fight with James 'Deaf' Burke in June 1833.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This memorial notice begins: 'An ELEGY on WILLY BALD'. The elegy itself begins: 'AND has auld Death that bloody knave / E'en brought Poor Willy to his grave? / Tho' we pray'd ay his life to save / With Book and Beed. / Alas we'll never hear him Rave / Since now he's dead.' A commemorative note below the title states that Willy Bald was a 'Porter in Traquaire'.
Written in a mock-epic style that suggests it was published during the eighteenth century, this ballad is a song of mourning for a porter called Willy Bald, who lived in Traquair, Peeblesshire. The historical town of Traquair is famous for its breweries and the ballad certainly highlights the fact that Willy was fond of his drink. Indeed, the author plays on the humorous concept that Willy will suffer a terrible drought if he ends up in Hell - hence the prayer at the end. Although Willy was not of the highest social class, the ballad celebrates his self-taught erudition and free-thinking philosophy, thereby suggesting he is a man of the Scottish Enlightenment.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy, on the never enough to be lamented Death of that Vertuous and Worthy Gentleman Capt: Geo: Drummond. Who dyed at Edinburgh, September 26, 1720.' The elegy begins: 'HOW frail, how vain, Momentainous Man? / His Life a Vapour, longest Years a Span.'
Unfortunately, it is difficult to say whether Captain George Drummond was in any way related to the celebrated George Drummond (1687-1766), who was appointed Edinburgh's Lord Provost in 1725. Both men appear to have had a great concern for and genuine interest in the less fortunate members of society. Whilst this elegy talks of Captain Drummond's charity and clemency, Provost Drummond is best remembered for initiating a groundbreaking programme of public works and for establishing the Royal Infirmary.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'AN ELEGY to the lasting Memory, and upon the much to be lamented Death of the pious, and well accomplished Gentleman, and much honoured, William Nisbet of Dirletoun. / Obiit, 20. October 1724, Ætatis 60.' The elegy begins: 'There is no Truth more evident to Sense'.
The Nisbets acquired the Dirleton lairdship in 1663, although the family very rarely lived there, preferring instead their newly-built residence at Archerfield, Pencaitland. William was renowned as a Jacobite patriot during this period of civil strife and enjoyed the warm regard of most of Edinburgh's society notables and literati. Another elegy was written for him by Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722), the burgess bard of Edinburgh, and Nisbet had further volumes of poetry dedicated to his memory.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This broadside begins: 'An Elegy upon the much to be lamented Death of the Reverend Mr. John Wilson, Minister of the Gospel at North Lieth, who departed this Life the 1st. of September, 1724.' The elegy begins: 'Still we do find, Black Cloth wears out the first, / And Fruits that are the choicest keep the worst'. The elegy was composed by William Gibson. The epitaph at the bottom of the sheet begins: 'Here Meekness lies interr'd with Wisdom's Light, / Zeal with Charity, a Pastor shining bright'.
Whilst a number of broadsides include a small woodcut illustration at the top of the sheet, adding to the visual appeal, this elegy contains an unusually high degree of illustrative detail. The top of the sheet shows a skull and crossbones along with the Latin phrase 'memento mori' (remember you must die), and the text is bordered on both sides by the image of the crossbones, a skeleton, and two crossed spades. Wilson must have been a prominent figure to warrant this rather ornate form of remembrance.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGY / ON / WILLIAM BURKE, / Who was Executed at Edinburgh, Jan. 28, 1829. / Now Willie Burke he's een awa' / And ta'en his last adieu'. The poem was written by 'A Countryman' and would have cost a penny to buy. It carries a woodcut profile of Burke at the top of the sheet.
There are many elegies contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which cover a vast range of characters. This man, however, was infamous at the time of his death due to the outrage caused by his murders, which were solely for profit. Some of these other broadsides describe his last morning and death throes on the gallows in great detail. Alongside this broadside is a newspaper cutting from a Sheffield paper concerning the Burke and Hare case and a advertisement for a publication on the case.
Burke and Hare were Irish bodysnatchers and murderers, who worked around Edinburgh's Canongate area - eventually becoming local legends. They hit upon the idea of murdering vulnerable or solitary people (in an attempt not to get caught) so that they could sell the bodies for dissection. Hare turned King's Evidence and so was acquitted, but this secured the conviction of Burke, who was hanged on the 28th January 1829.This memorial notice begins: 'On the much to be lamented Death of James Whetty Taylor and Free-Man in the Pattaraw who departed this Life Apprile the 5th, 1725 about the 69. of his Age. With a Caution to his Successors.' The elegy begins: 'AND has Old Death that Bloody Knave'.
Many of the people featured on broadsides were once local celebrities, but are now largely untraceable. Often the only available personal information is contained within the broadside. Here, however, much is revealed about Whetty's lifestyle and social status.
Whetty was a tailor, mainly involved in the production of parliamentary gowns. He was also a goat-herd and a 'penny-weddings' organiser. Further to this, his successors are warned that they will have a hard job filling Whetty's shoes.This memorial notice begins: 'AN / ELEGY / On the much to be Lamented Death, / OF / Francis Masterton Apothecary.' The elegy begins: 'COME thou thy mournful Muse to his great Name.'
There are other elegies upon the death of surgeons contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. It is curious to note, however, that the title on this sheet is identical to most of the other sheets praising surgeons. This illustrates the speed and financial ethic which drove this industry. It would seem that the printer kept a plate made up and simply changed the name and verse for each new commission.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'AN / ELEGY / On the much to be Lamented Death, / OF / Mr. John Merry Surgeon Apothecary.' The elegy begins: 'Is MERRY Dead, his Active Spirit flown?'
There are many elegies contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection, although most of them seem to be written about people who are now virtually untraceable. The local surgeon would have been a well-known member of the community, given his status and the fact that he mixed with all classes. As a result, a broadside not only featuring him but praising him may have been a more appealing purchase.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'AN / ELEGIE / Upon the much to be lamented Death of Colonel SARA, who departed this Life, at Leith, the 28th of August 1718.' The elegy begins: 'What mournful Sound is this doth reach mine Ears'.
It is now difficult to trace many of the people featured in broadside elegies - often the only personal information available on them is contained in the broadside. Here it would appear that Colonel Sara was infamous for her political opinions and her charitable work. It is more than likely, given the function of broadsides, that Colonel Sara would have enjoyed local celebrity status. Because of it's topicality and local interest it may have sold well.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'An ELEGIE On the never enough Lamented Death, of the Right Honourable JOHN MURRAY LORD BOWHILL, One of the Senators of the Colledge of Justice; who departed this Life upon the 26th March 1714.' The poem begins: 'O! Thou my Muse, that's now Bedew'd with Tears, / Sob thou Dire Sighs, Pierce Adamantine Ears'.
John Murray, Lord Bowhill, is described as a 'senator of the College of Justice', which is the full title of a judge in Scots law. The College of Justice was founded in Edinburgh in 1532 and was one of the Scottish institutions to retain its independence after the Treaty of Union in 1707. Murray's elegist clearly held him in very high esteem and crafted his poem very carefully. Its words praise Murray extravagantly, and the final ten lines are designed as an acrostic verse, where the initial letters of each line spell the subject's name when read from top to bottom.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegie on the Never Enough to be Lamented Death of the Reverend Mr William Delape Preacher of the Gospel, WHO Departed this Life October 30, 1720. Aged 28 Years.' The elegy begins: 'O Great, eternal, high and mighty One, / Who doth command all Flesh before thy Throne'. Although no publication date has been included on this broadside, it was most likely issued the same year as Delape's death.
As with many of the elegies in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection, the individual whose passing is being mourned here has, with the passing of years, disappeared into obscurity. At the time this broadside was written, William Delape was obviously a well-known figure around Edinburgh. Many people would have bought this elegy having known the man personally, or at least known of him. To a twenty-first century audience, however, his memory is no longer still alive.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'ELEGIE / On the never enough to be Lamented Cruel Death, of the most Hopeful and Gallant Young Gentleman, Mr. William Rue, of Chesters, who was Barbarously Murdered by George Ballantine Younger of Craigmore, Musgrave Mackgie, Brother to the Laird of Balmagie, and William Hamilton, Eldest Son to Bailie Hamilton in Abbay of Holy-Rood-House. In Febr 1710. With Brief Description of his Penitentials.' The elegy begins: 'O Fatal Death! Thou many Methods take, / Poor Man to Kill, and Mortal Hearts still breaks'.
Also included on this sheet is a short verse detailing the 'Huy and Cry after the Murderers of William Rue'. It begins: 'There is George Ballantine, the Young Laird of Craigmuir / Chief Murderer, who thinks himself secure'. Unfortunately there is no information included regarding the author or publisher.
This elegy follows a familiar pattern found in many broadsides of the day. It details the tragic murder of a god-fearing and morally-upstanding young man. His piety is considered exemplary and is intended to serve as a lesson to the readership. It is possible that this broadside was one of a sequence detailing the incidents surrounding the death of Rue. It appears, from the final verse, that whilst the identities of the murderers were known, they had yet to be apprehended.This memorial notice begins: ON the Death of his Grace JOHN DUKE of ROTHES, LORD High CHANCELLOUR of SCOTLAND, &c. ELEGIE.' The elegy which follows begins: 'ISRAEL for Moses fourty days did Mourn, / Our Joy to Grief, twice fourty days may turn; / Scotlands Conductor, ROTHES, Wise and Brave, / Ah! Now Himself Conducted is to Grave'. The publication date of this broadside is not given, but it is likely to have been published some time in 1681, as the subject died on 27th July 1681.
John Leslie (c.1630-81), 7th Earl of Rothes, remained faithful to the House of Stuart during the civil war of the seventeenth century, and after the restoration of Charles II he was richly rewarded for his loyalty. In 1660 he was appointed President of the Privy Council of Scotland and in 1661 Lord High Chancellor of Scotland for Life. In 1680 he was created 1st Duke of Rothes. On his death the Duke was awarded a state funeral. His loyalty and accomplishments are lavishly praised in the elegy on this broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegy Upon the much Lamented Death of Janet Hill, Spouse to the Famous Tinclarian Doctor William Mitchell, who departed this Life, 13th of October 1716.' The elegy begins: 'THE Defunct has obtain'd a Name, / By virtue of the Doctor's Fame'. As mentioned in the title, William Mitchell was a 'Tinclarian Doctor'. 'Tinclarian' is a Scots word meaning 'tinker-like'.
According to this elegy, Janet Hill was the wife of William Mitchell, a charlatan who set himself up as a doctor despite his lack of formal training. Although Janet is described as 'The Honest Woman all the while, / Who at such mad Attempts did smile, / Behav'd her self without all Guile', it appears that she was driven by her desire for money and, as such, aided him in his work. Charlatans such as Mitchell were a common feature of the eighteenth century. With medical science still in its relative infancy and most doctors charging exorbitant prices, often the only avenue open to the poor and sick was to call upon the slighty cheaper services of the 'tinclarian'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'To the Memory of the right Honourable MARGARET COUNTESS OF WEEMS. Who departed the Life at Weems, February 20 1688. A FUNERAL ELEGIE.' The elegy which follows begins: 'Like as an aged lofty-fronted Oak, / Whose Verdure, Boughs, and Shelter, might provock, / The proudest in the Dodonean Grove, / Which Superstition did devout to Jove'. The name 'N. Paterson' is given at the foot of the sheet. This may refer to the author of the elegy, or it could refer to the broadside publisher.
Margaret Leslie, the sister of John Leslie, 7th Earl and 1st Duke of Rothes, married David, 2nd Earl of Wemyss in 1652. After David died in 1679 their daughter Margaret (d. 1705) became legal Countess of Wemyss, although the dedication on this elegy suggests that the elder Margaret could also continue to use the title. Both the Leslie and Wemyss families were staunch supporters of the House of Stuart and the intermarriage may have been as much for political as for romantic reasons. The National Library of Scotland also holds a broadside elegy on John Leslie.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGIE on the Much to be Lamented Death, and Loss of the Right HONOURABLE WILLIAM EARL of CRAWFOORD, and Lord LINDSAY, &c. And One of His Majesties Most Honourable Privy Council, &c. Departed this Life, March 6th. 1698.' The elegy which follows begins: 'You Noble Lords lay by yor Robes, Come Mourn a while with me, / For good Lord Crawfoord that is gone into Eternitie! ' Althought the publication date of the broadside is not given, it is likely to have been shortly after the death of the subject on March 6th, 1698.
The subject of this elegy, William Lindsay (1644-98), was the 18th Earl of Crawford. He was also the second Earl of Lindsay, the title having been created for his father John (c.1598-1678) in 1633. The Lindsays of Crawford had been influential in Scottish politics and society since the 12th century, and during the civil wars of the 17th century John Lindsay wavered between supporting the Covenanters and the Royalists. William Lindsay consistently supported the Covenanters, and this benefited him when James II was deposed and William and Mary became monarchs. In the elegy, William is described as 'a Pillar of the Church, Supporter of the Crown'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'Elegie On the Much to be Lamented Death of the Right Honourable, Alexander Lord Reath, One of His Majesties Most Honourable Privy Council, and Exchequer, &c. Departed this Life, March 21 1698.' The elegy begins: 'It seems the Heavens begins to frown, the World draws near an end / When Wisdom drops down to the Grave, that did this Land defend'.
Whilst Alexander, Lord Reath appears to have been a highly respected and prominent figure during his lifetime, his name has been somewhat forgotten with the passing of years. It is apparent from this elegy mourning Reath's death that he served king and country well, and was eventually awarded the honour of 'Hye Keeper of SCOTLAND'. Although little is known of Reath himself, it can be said with surety that he lived during troubled times. With the Union of the Crowns in 1603, the seventeenth century was a time of great religious and political upheaval.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'ELEGIE / On John Pringle, Town-Piper of Lauder / To the Tune of, Lang Unken'd / [Done by Maggie Riddel's Son.]' The elegy begins: 'O Gosh! what will come o' us now?'
John Pringle, Piper of Lauder, is a fairly well-known songwriter and musician of the eighteenth century. Apart of the works he is now alleged to have composed, as many of them appeared anonymously at the time, very little else is known about him. Pipers and musicians in general, however, were valued and respected members of their communities as testified by the life's of Niel Gow and Habbie Simpson.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This memorial notice begins: 'An Elegie Upon the never Enough to be Lamented Death, of the Right Honourable ADAM BROWN, Esq; Lord PROVOST of EDINBURGH'. The elegy itself begins: 'As soon as Death by Sin was Usher'd in, / That Dreadful Gyant did a War begin, / Against all Adam's Race with mighty Rage, / Without Respect to Sex, Degree or Age.' Although no publication details are included on the sheet, it must have been published shortly after the 16th of October, 1711, which is the date when Adam Brown died.
With religious imagery from the Old Testament dominating throughout, this elegy reveals as much about the God-fearing nature of Scottish society in 1711, as it does of Adam Brown's life and death. Indeed, the writer uses the name 'Adam' to provide him with an interesting angle for his elegy, as he commences his lines with the arrival of death following Adam and Eve's original sin and subsequent banishment from Eden. As there is not much information about Adam Brown's life in Edinburgh, it could be that his place in history was eclipsed by Auld Reekie's stunning reinvention as 'the Athens of the North' during the Scottish Enlightenment and Georgian period. 'Auld Reekie' and 'Athens of the North' are respective nicknames for Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This memorial notice begins: 'CURST Judas did this Office first begin / He, bare the Bag, and kept what was therein'.
It is now difficult to know whether 'John Couper the kirk treasurer' was ever a real person, as no concrete details are given in the text and he is now largely untraceable. The text does talk about John Couper's deeds but it also goes on to rant about the excesses of churchmen in general. They are accused of spending money on hackney cabs, women and fine ornaments, and only giving spare money to the poor!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.