This ballad begins: 'Ye sunny lands, beyond the main, / Where plenty smiles in store; / Thy charms may tempt our roving sons / To leave their native shore.' The author of this ballad was James Kirkwood, who appears to have lived in Garth, which is near Denny in Stirlingshire.
This writer of this ballad considers the attraction of leaving Scotland to start a new life elsewhere, before deciding that Scotland, with its glorious past, is not an easy country to part company from. Indeed, the writer points out that even though Scotland is a cold and wet place with sterile soil, he still loves the country and will not join those who are emigrating from Scotland. In short, this ballad is all about the joys of living in Scotland, at a time when thousands of Scots were emigrating from the land of their birth.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Once I was a waterman, / And lived at home at ease; / Now I am a mariner, / And plough the angry seas; / I thought I'd like a seafarin' life, / So bid my love "adoo," / And shipped as cook and stewart, boys, / On board o' the "Kangaroo."
This song is narrated by a man who goes off to sea, leaving his sweetheat behind, and returns to discover that she has married someone else. Themes of parting, and of betrayal, are not uncommon in broadside ballads, but whereas in many cases these are sad songs, this example is intended to be quite humorous. The song subverts traditional romantic imagery: the presents the narrator buys for his lover are not jewels and spices but tortoises and a rat and a cockatoo, and the lover herself is not a young maiden but a twice-married laundrywoman aged forty. The reference to 'Milford Bay' suggests this may be a Canadian song.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Norah, dear Norah, I cant live without you, / What made you leave me to cross the wide sea / Norah, dear Norah, oh! why did you doubt me / The world seems so dark and so drearly to me? / Why from old Ireland have you been a ranger / Why have you chosen the wide world to roam / Why did you go to the land of the stranger, / And leave your own Barney alone, all alone?' This song was published by the Poet's Box, 190 & 192 Overgate, Dundee.
Broadside ballads on the subject of love lost were quite common. This example is narrated by 'Barney', whose sweetheart Norah Magee has left him and their native Ireland to travel the world. The song is a plea to Norah to return. Quite a number of the broadside ballads in the National Library of Scotland's collection are set in Ireland or about Ireland. This probably reflects the high levels of Irish migration to Scotland that took place during industrialisation in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Far frae my ain hame I wander, / But still my thoughts return'. The second ballad begins: 'They're far ower the sea, the freen's we lo'e sae weel, / They're far, far across the stormy main'. The third ballad begins: 'Says I, bonnie lassie, will ye gang wi' me, / An' leave your friends in their ain country?' The fourth ballad begins: 'Our bravest on the turf lie dead / On dark Flodden Field'.
The first two songs deal with a subject that would have been familiar to a large number of Scots, that of emigration to distant shores. 'My Ain Folk' is from the perspective of those who have left their beloved homeland, whilst 'They're Far Far Awa'' is from the viewpoint of the people who were left behind. With the Scottish diaspora of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, such themes were extremely popular and struck a chord with many people.
Whilst the narrator of the 'Gallowa' Hills' is not seeking to travel overseas, he is trying to entice his sweetheart to leave her friends and family behind and follow him into the hills. Although slightly different to the first two ballads, it deals with similar themes: the desire to seek out a new and better life coupled with the pain felt by leaving one's home. The final ballad, 'Dark Flodden Field', deals with the aftermath of the Battle of Flodden (1513), where the English defeated the Scots under King James IV, who along with over 10,000 Scots died on the battlefield. Rousing patriotic sentiments, the song ends on a positive note: 'Yet Scotland shall outlive thy stain, / Dark Flodden Field'.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye muses nine, with me combine, / And grant me some relief'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow, which were his business premises between 1860 and 1890.
This song was published on another broadside by James Lindsay but with the address 9 King Street, Glasgow, which were his premises previous to 11 King Street, between 1852 and 1859. This would suggest that song plates were occasionally used to try and maximise profit. This song deals with emigration from Ireland to Scotland in a much more direct and open manner than many of the other songs on this theme.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Kathleen Mavourneen, the grey dawn is breaking, / The horn of the hunter is heard on the hill; / The lark from her light wing the bright due is shaking, / Kathleen Mavourneen! what slumbering still?' It was published by Robert M'Intosh of Glasgow.
'Kathleen Mavourneen' is a song narrated by someone imploring his lover to awake before he has to leave her and Ireland for ever. Song of parting were common in broadside ballads, and the narrators were often men facing transportation or preparing to join the army. Here, the narrator's reasons for leaving are not given, but as it is an Irish ballad it is likely that he is being forced to emigrate for economic reasons. Both Ireland and the Scottish Highlands experienced large-scale emigration in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, especially during periods of crop failure.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'As I went out one morning clear down by yon river side, / I overheard a fair maid, the tears rolling down did glide, / This is a cold and stormy night, these words I heard her say / My lover is on the ocean wide bound for America.' It was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
Although no publication date has been included on this broadside, it is thought to have been published between 1860 and 1894 - the years during which Lindsay had premises at 11 King Street. 'John Reilly' combines two popular themes found in many traditional ballads, those of tragic love and emigration. The ballad ends on a rather predictable note, with the star-crossed lovers perishing on the high seas.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'I'm sitting on the stile Mary, / Where we sat side by side, / On a bright! may morning long ago, / When first you were my bride.' This sheet was published by Robert McIntosh of Glasgow but is not dated.
Although this ballad starts off as if it were a lyrical love song written during the Romantic era, the tone soon changes as it reveals itself instead to be a song of mourning. The song is dedicated to a young wife called Mary who, along with her infant child, died from starvation in Ireland. The husband concludes the ballad by promising that, although he is emigrating to a new land, he will never forget his wife or 'Old Ireland'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'A Full, True, and Particular Account of the LAST SPEECH, CONFESSION, and DYING DECLARATION of JOHN MURDOCK, (one of the Emigrants who lately left this country for America) who was Executed at Brockville, in Upper Canada . . . for the Horrible, Barbarous, and Inhuman Murder of his own Brother, by knocking him on the head with a large Axe, and afterwards Burying him Alive, while Cutting Timber in the Woods together.' The sheet was published in 1821, probably in Scotland. It is unusual for a story of this nature to travel so far.
These words were purportedly written by John Murdock, or Murdoch, although it is unlikely that he actually wrote the piece. The language is rather more elegant than would normally be expected from a poor convict. It is more likely to have been the work of an enterprising publisher. After detailing the grisly crime, and confessing that he wanted to kill his brother's wife also, 'Murdock' asks for forgiveness.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This ballad begins: 'T'is just ten years ago, / Since I left my native home, / And oh how my mother wept, / When last she shook my hand.' The text preceding it reads: 'Copies of this song can always be had at the Poets Box 190 Overgate Dundee. / PRICE ONE PENNY'.
These sheets all mainly sold for a penny each regardless of which century they were printed in. This perhaps illustrates the cost effectiveness of the changes made within the printing industry. The sheets were occasionally made more attractive for their price by including two stories or songs. Here, however, the high drama and emotion were perhaps enough to sell this as compelling entertainment.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'When I was young and youth did bloom, / Where fancy led me, I did roam; / From town to town the country round, / Through every sylvan shady grove. / Until I came from Scotland by name, / Where beauty shines on every side, / There's no town there we can compare / With Glasgow fair, on the banks of Clyde.' It was to be sung to the original tune, suggesting that both the song and melody were well-known, and was published in 1869 by the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow.
This ballad recounts the arrival of a young Irishman in Scotland, 'Where beauty shines on every side'. He encounters a young woman on the banks of the Clyde and after reassuring her that he is betrothed to another, and poses no threat, they walk arm in arm. As is so often the case in such ballads, however, the young man disappears after persuading the young woman to compromise her morals. With mass emigration to Scotland from Ireland during the years of industrialisation, references to Ireland were common in Scottish broadsides.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'Now for America I'm bound, / Against my inclination- / Yes, I must leave my native ground, / Which fills me with vexation'.
The second ballad begins: 'It's of a fearless highwayman a story I will tell, / his name was William Brennan in Ireland he did dwell'.
Both songs are about foreign places, perhaps making them more exotic to the audience. They are also both about leaving loved ones, although the first character is emigrating and the second, the highwayman, is to die. The latter, William Brennan was hanged in Cork in 1804. Sheets were often printed with two songs, often only distantly related like this one, to make them a more attractive purchase - more goods for your money.Verse 1: 'Guid evenin' frien's, I hope your weel, / I'm prood tae see you a', / I just wis passin' through the toon, / So I thought I'd gie you a ca', / I'm gaun awa' across the seas, / My fortune for tae try, / So I've just come tae see you frien's / An' bid ye a' guid bye.' A note under the title announces that it was 'Sung with great success by J.G. Roy'.
This ballad published by the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee, combines traditional verse and chorus with a spoken reminiscence recounting a particularly drunken night. It tells of one man's last 'jolly spree' before he sets sail for distant shores. With the Scottish diaspora of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, such themes were extremely popular and struck a chord with many of those left behind.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'THERE came to the beach a poor exile of Erin, / The dew on his thin robe was heavy and chill; / For his country he sighed, when at twilight repairing, / To wander alone by the winds beaten hill. / But the day-star attracted his eyes sad devotion, / For it rose o'er his own native isle of the ocean, / When once in the fire of his youthful emotion, / He sang the loud anthem of Erin-go-Bragh.' 'Erin Go Bragh' is Irish for 'Ireland Forever'.
There appears to be some doubt over the authorship of 'The Exile of Erin'. Many believe it to be the work of the Scottish-born poet, Thomas Campbell (1777-1844), who is said to have been inspired by an encounter with an Irish exile named McCann. It has also been suggested, however, that it was the work of the Irish ballad writer George Nugent Reynolds (1770-1802).
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'God speed the keel of the trusty ship / That bears ye from our shore'. The text before this reads: 'Price One Penny. / This very popular song can always be had in the Poet's Box, 80 London Street, Glasgow. / TUNE - Original'. It was published on the 24th June 1871, probably in Glasgow.
Many of the sheets which were published by the Poet's Boxes across Scotland, had part of their addresses blacked out or cut out at a later date. The reason for this is largely unclear. It possible, however, that surplus stock from one shop was shipped around the country, to boost profits. Local news and items of interest would probably have sold quicker and so perhaps the more distant address was scratched out to improve sales.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This public notice begins: 'HER MAJESTY'S Colonial Land and Emigration Commissioners HEREBY GIVE NOTICE, THAT they are prepared to receive applications from Persons of the Labouring Classes, who may be desirous of Emigrating to the CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, with the intention of working there for wages, but who are unable to defray the whole expense of their passage.' The notice is dated 20th January 1849, and was published by J. Durham of Dundee on behalf of the Government Emigration Office in Dundee.
This is a government notice inviting applications for assisted emigration to the Cape of Good Hope, in South Africa. Emigration Societies were formed across the United Kingdom during the nineteenth century, to financially assist people who wished to emigrate to Canada, Australia, or Africa. The places most associated with assisted emigration schemes are Ireland and the Scottish Highlands. In these areas livelihoods were still heavily dependent on an unpredictable rural economy, and many landowners were keen to clear the land of people to develop large-scale livestock farming. This advertisement, however, is aimed at people in Dundee and Forfarshire.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The first ballad begins: 'Come all young men of learning, / A warning take by me, / I'd have you quit night walking, / And shun bad company.'
The second ballad begins: 'Farewell to Scotland, / It is my native ground, / To the county of Caithness, / Near to Wick Town'. This sheet was published by Walker of Durham. The woodcut at the top of the sheet depicts a solid ship beset by a storm-tossed sea.
Both these ballads deal with emigration from Scotland. The first deals with criminal transportation, and the second with bonded passage and labour. This sheet is rather unusual as these explicitly Scottish poems were published in Durham. It is known that George Walker of Saddler Street, Durham, was a prolific criminal-broadside producer, and so is most likely to have been responsible for this sheet too.Verse 1: 'My barque leaves the harbour to-morrow, / Across the wide ocean to go, / Bnt, Kitty, my burden of sorrow, / Is more than I'd wish you to know. / there's a dreary dark cloud hanging o'er / And a mighty big cloud on my mind, / And I think of the prospects before me, / And the country I'm leaving behind.' It was published by the Poet's Box of Dundee.
A common theme of broadside ballads, especially moving into the nineteenth century, was emigration, and this ballad is a good example of the tradition. The singer is leaving his love, Kitty, and his country, 'Erin', another name for Ireland, to make his fortune. Many modern folk songs retain this theme.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Farewell to Lochaber, and farewell my Jean, / Where heartsome with thee I hae monie days been; / For Lochaber no more, Lochaber no more, / We'll maybe return to Lochaber no more.' Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
This ballad tells the story of parting lovers, and highlights the fears they have regarding the likelihood that they may never meet again.  The reference to winning 'glory and fame' possibly suggests that the man is about to leave and fight in a war. The author of the ballad, Allan Ramsay, had Jacobite sympathies. The ballad itself is quite inventive in its use of poetic imagery, with the sea tempests that the man is about to face during the imminent journey being imaginatively employed to convey the stormy nature of his inner turmoil.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'My barque leaves the harbour tomorrow, / Across the wide ocean to go, / But, Kitty, my burden of sorrow / Is more than I'd wish you to know. / There's a dreary dark cloud hanging o'er me, / And a mighty big cloud on my mind, / And I think of the prospects before me, / And the country I'm leaving behind.' This ballad was published by the Poet's Box, 190 Overgate, Dundee.
This ballad is narrated by a man preparing to leave Ireland and his sweetheart Kitty. The name 'Erin', used in the chorus of this ballad, is a poetic name for Ireland, derived from the Irish  'Eire', which is still used today. Ballads about leaving Ireland were not uncommon. In the eighteenth and in particular the nineteenth centuries, emigration from the largely rural island was very high. Some migrants crossed the Atlantic, but many others came to industrialising Scotland, hence the number of Irish songs to be found in Scottish broadsides.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'You say good-bye the parting words were spoken / I have you now, perhaps 'tis better so. / I give you back each tender little token.' The text preceding it reads: 'This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, / 90 and 102 Overgate Dundee.'
Many of the songs published by the Poet's Box in Dundee and held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, are on the topic of love sundered by distance, especially with lovers travelling overseas. This may have been a popular subject in Dundee, as its harbours and shipping were a thriving part of the community. Dundee was also a transportation and emigration port.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad is sung to the tune of 'Flowers of the Forest' and begins: 'You people of Scotland I pray give attention, / A sad dismal story I soon shall let you hear, / Of the dreadful burning of the Steamship the Mon'real / For Montreal in Canada her course she did steer.' A woodcut illustration is included at the top of this sheet.
The tragic fire aboard the paddle steamer, the 'Montreal', broke out on the 26th June 1857, en route from Quebec to Montreal. Among the passengers were 250 Scottish men, women and children who had just disembarked from the 'John MacKenzie', which had brought them from Scotland. Despite attempts to guide the boat into shallow waters, and the rescue efforts of another boat carrying emigrants, nearly 250 people lost their lives. With so many Scottish people involved in the disaster, it would have provoked a lot of interest and concern back home in Scotland.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'The winter is gane, love, the sweet spring again, love, / Bedecks the blue mountain and gilds the dark sea, / Gie'en birth to the blossom, and bliss to the bosom, / And hope for the future to you love, an' me. / For far to the west, to the land of bright freedom, / The land where the vine and the orange trees grow, / I fain would conduct thee, my ain winsome dearie - / Then hey, bonnie lassie, will you bundle and go?'
This moving ballad is narrated by a young man trying to persuade his sweetheart to emigrate with him from the Highlands to the United States or Canada. Vast numbers of Highlanders emigrated west during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Emigration was greatest in times of hunger, such as the harvest failures of 1771-2 and 1782 and the potato blight of 1845-6. In the latter period many emigrant ships were controversially funded by landlords keen to clear tenants off their land. Close-knit Gaelic communities descended from these Scottish immigrants still exist in modern Canada.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Bonny Nelly Brown, I will sing a song to thee, / Tho' oceans wide between us roar, ye'll aye be dear to me, / Tho' mony a year's gane o'er my head, since down in Linton's dell, / I took my last fond look o' thee, my ain dear Nell.'
'Bonny Nelly Brown' is the name of the sweetheart lamented by the narrator of this song. The phrases 'To' oceans wide between us roar' and 'They tell me Nelly Brown, that your bonny yellow hair, / Is snaw-white now . . .' suggest that the narrator had to emigrate from Scotland many years prevously, and that he only now receives news of Nelly Brown from friends back home. Emigration due to poverty was a common phenomenon in eighteenth and nineteenth century Scotland, and this, and lost love, were popular subjects for broadside ballads.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Farewell to Glasgow, / Likewise to Lanarkshire, / And farewell my dearest parents, / For I'll never see you mair; / For the want of pocket money, / And for the want of cash, / Makes mony a bonny laddie, / to leave his bonny lass.' The chorus begins: 'For I am forced to go, my love / Where no one shall me know'. Included at the top of the sheet is a woodcut illustration of a man and woman holding hands. The word 'Kangaroo' is from the title of another ballad that appeared on the same sheet: 'On Board the Kangaroo'.
'The Bonnie Lassie's Answer' also appears on another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, featuring a different woodcut. It tells the tale of a young man who, for the want of money, has been forced to enter into military service. Before leaving, he bids farewell to the country he loves, his parents and his sweetheart. Each time he says goodbye to his bonnie lassie, her sweet refrain is 'no, no'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'The auld house, the auld hoose, / What though the rooms were wee, / Oh kind hearts were dwelling there, / And barnies fu' o' glee / The wild rose and jessamine / Still hang up on the wa'; / How many cherished memories / Do the sweet flowers reca'?' 'Barnies' is a misprint, it should read 'bairnies'; a Scots word for 'children'. This sheet was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee.
This ballad deals with the subject of the passing of time, and fond memories of people or places now gone. The only contemporary reference to help us date it is that the singer mentions loved ones who have 'to the Indies gone'. Scottish emigration to the West Indies began in 1611, but increased after the 1707 Act of Union eliminated restrictions on trade between the Indies and the American colonies. The song was written by Lady Nairne, Carolina Oliphant (1766-1845) of Gask House, Perthshire. The 'auld hoose' was her ancient family home, replaced with a more modern building c.1800. Because she was a woman of high status, her songs were first published anonynously. She was the author of numerous well known songs, including; Wi' a Hundred Pipers, Charlie is my Darling, Laird o' Cockpen, Caller Herrin', Land o' the Leal, etc.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Adieu, my native land, adieu, / The vessel spreads her swelling sails; / Perhaps I never more may view / Your fertile fields, your flowery dales.' It was to be sung to the air 'Farewell to Albion's Heathery Hills'. The broadside was priced at one penny and published by the Poet's Box (probably in Glasgow). A long advertisement for services offered by the Poet's Box foots the sheet, but the address and town are not included.
Parting was a popular theme for ballads. In some cases the parting might be between two people, in others, as in this ballad, the narrator might be leaving his or her native country. Military service, transportation or emigration for economic reasons were the most common reasons for people leaving. In this ballad, however, none of these factors are touched upon, and the atmospheric last verse hints that the journey symbolised here is the final journey of death.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'I am a poor stranger, from America I came, / There's no one does know me, nor can tell me my name; / I am a poor stranger, I'll tarry a while, / I have rambled for my darling for many a long mile.' It was published by Robert McIntosh of 96 King Street, Calton, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
Unusually, this ballad tells the tale of an American stranger arriving in a foreign country - in this case probably Scotland. A common theme for many of the broadside ballads published in Scotland was that of Scots emigrating to distant shores. This sheet, however, provides the reader with the lesser-known tale of an American arriving in Scotland. It is accompanied by a woodcut illustration of a young man selling wares.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'Copy of a very Curious Letter from a Cotton Spinner in Canada, to his friends in this Country, containing a particular invitation to all men going out to America to take a Cotton Mill Lass along with him, as they make the far best Wives there; with many other curious particulars.' The broadside was published by John Muir of Glasgow and is dated 12th February 1827. Damage to the paper makes it quite difficult to read.
Allegedly written by a cotton spinner exiled in Canada, this 'letter' focuses almost entirely on the poor hygiene and housework standards of his friend's wife. The cotton spinner concludes that uncleanliness is a trait of 'country lasses', and that any Scotsman looking for a wife should wed a mill girl. It is likely that the letter is not genuine, but propaganda relating to a debate that was ongoing in Scotland in the early nineteenth century about the role of women. The most famous contributor to this was Elizabeth Hamilton, whose successful didactic novel 'The Cottagers of Glenburnie' (1808) stereotyped Scottish rural wives as lazy and 'clarty'. The latter word became very popular and recurs in this broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.