This account of a murderer's confession and execution begins: 'Confession and Execution of HUGH MACLEOD, Who was Executed at Inverness, on the 24th of October, for the atrocious MURDER of MURDO GRANT, Pedlar, from Locbroom.' It was published by R. Cobban & Co. Aberdeen, in 1830.
Despite the brevity of many broadsides, they often reflect a great deal about the society in which they were produced. Note here for example, that although the broadside is written in English, the murderer addresses the crowd at his execution in Gaelic. In 1830 the Highlands were predominantly Gaelic-speaking. Broadsides would not have been written in Gaelic, however, as the language was rarely written and very few were able to read or write it. The translation of Hugh Macleod's last words suggest that author of this broadsheet, as well as being literate in English, is likely to have been bilingual in English and Gaelic.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report of an execution begins: 'EXECUTION Of ELIZABETH M'NEIL OR BANKS, who was Executed this morning, at the west end of the Lock-up-house, for the Murder of her husband, Peter Banks, a collier at Pathhead.' It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh in 1835
Broadside reports vary greatly in the amount of information they provide. This example gives an unusually full account of the condemned woman's life and actions, from her previous homes and marriage, through her work selling pottery in an unhappy second marriage, to her murder of that second husband and her subsequent attempts to starve herslf to death before she could be executed. The execution itself is described in minute, pathetic detail. It appears that the author of this broadside is keen to elict sympathy for Elizabeth McNiel.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Execution of John Thomson and David Dobie, for the Assault, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, on the 17th April last, with a copy of an affectionate Letter sent to Dobie's wife. Edinburgh, Wednesday morning, 9 o'clock, 18th August 1830.' This sheet was printed by Robertson and Thomson, Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
Illustrated with rather frightening woodcuts, this broadside tells of a murder of a young woman perpetrated by two carters from Gilmerton, John Thomson and David Dobie, and the subsequent execution of the two condemned prisoners. Highlighting the men's 'very rude and ill-behaved' manner before and after the trial, the report contrasts their loutish behaviour with the calm demeanour that resulted after they had made their peace with God. The last paragraph describes the prisoners' behaviour on the scaffold, while the final sentence closes the subject by mentioning that the bodies of the murderers are now being dissected at the college.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This report begins: 'An account of the Execution of Robert Emond, who was executed this morning March 17, 1830, at the Head of Libberton's Wynd, for the Murder of Mrs Franks and her Daughter at Haddington, in October last.'
This is one in a series of broadsides kept by the National Library of Scotland which relate to this case. A week prior to his execution, Robert Emond was convicted of murdering his wife's sister and her teenage daughter. Apparently, Emond's wife and Mrs Franks had chastised him for speculating too much with the family's money, and Emond's 'bewildered mind' believed he was utterly despised by them. So, after a blazing row with his wife, he killed her sister and niece at their home.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'An account of the Execution of these two unfortunate men James Anderson and David Glenn at Ayr, on Friday the 12th Dec. Their bodies were brought into the College this morning for dissection.'
Both these men were tried a month before their execution at the High Court in Edinburgh, and there are other broadsides covering their cases contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. They were convicted of the murder of the church elder, John McClure. This execution notice follows a fairly standard pattern describing their application for reprieve, their sober behaviour as death became imminent and their 'advice' to others to repent of their ways. A strong theme amongst broadsides of the time - the evils of drink - is also highlighted by this report.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Particular Account of the Execution and last dying Declaration and Behaviour of ROBERT SCOTT, who was Executed, on that part of the Road between Earlston and Greenlaw, where he committed the Bloody deeds, yesterday, Wednesday the 29th October, 1823, for the Horrid and Barbarous Murder of Two men, on the evening of 30th June last, and his Body sent to Edin for Dissection.' Publisher William Johnston, Edinburgh, 1823
One of the most interesting elements of this broadside is the emphasis that is placed on the great ceremony surrounding the execution. This perhaps reflects the fact that the murder and subsequent execution took place in a rural community, where such events would have been rare. An execution probably had greater impact as a spectacle, and a warning, for the people of Roxburghshire and Berwickshire than it would have had for the people of Edinburgh.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full and Particular Account of the Execution of THOMAS BLACK, who was Executed at the Head of Libberton Wynd, Edinburgh, this morning, Wednesday the 10th December, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft; and of his Behaviour since his condemnation, at the Place of Execution.' This account was published by James Dogherty of Edinburgh and cost a penny to buy.
Thomas Black was executed in Libberton Wynd, Edinburgh, which was located in almost the same place as the modern day junction of the High Street and George IV Bridge. The Lawnmarket and Grassmarket areas of Edinburgh were mainly where executions occurred. Black seems, however, to have been spared the final punishment of having his body sent to the University for dissection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of W. BURKE, who was Hanged at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 28th January 1829; also, an account of his conduct and behaviour since his condemnation, and on the Scaffold.' The broadside was sold for one penny. It does not carry a date of publication nor the name of the publisher.
Contained on this broadside is an evocative report of the last hours of William Burke. Burke and his colleague William Hare were responsible for sixteen murders, motivated by the money they could earn by selling the bodies on to anatomists at Edinburgh's medical school. Hare saved himself from the gallows by agreeing to give evidence against Burke. As the report describes, Burke's execution was a popular spectacle in a city angered by the pair's crimes, and at the scaffold many shouted for Hare to be hanged also. The National Library of Scotland holds a number of different broadsides relating to this notorious case.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An account of the execution of James Wilson and John M'Donald, at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 4th day of June. 1823 ; with their behaviour in Jail, and on the Scaffold.' This sheet was printed in Glasgow, on the 5th of June, 1823.
There are other reports of this case contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Many of these reports, however, took on a standard format to speed up the production process. Often, only the relevant details such as name, crime and date were changed. Normally the convicts did not sleep the night before, they received the clergymen with quiet humility and then their deaths were used as a vehicle of moral warning. Here, however, there is also a short description of Macdonald's dying throes for those looking for grim entertainment.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Execution of William Buchanan and William M'Leod and Thomas Donaldson, at Aberdeen on Friday 23d May 1823, with the affecting separation with their Parents and Relations, also a most pathetic speech made by Buchanan on the Scaffold, a genteel young Man belonging to Edinburgh.' This sheet was published in Aberdeen, on Saturday 24th May 1823.
This style of sentimentalised and sensational reporting is one of the features which makes broadsides the forerunner of modern newspapers. There is a great emphasis on religion in this text, with the young men regretting their neglect of the Sabbath and the Scriptures. The three men's sober behaviour and self-control are also highlighted in favourable terms. These characteristics would eventually became the cornerstone of Victorian society.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'A Full, Authentic, and Particular Account of the Execution of PETER HAEMAN and FRANCOIS GAUTIEZ, who were Hanged . . . on Wednesday the 9th January, 1822, for the Piratical seizure of the Schooner Jane of Gibraltar . . . and for the Barbarous Murder of Thomas Johnson, master, and James Paterson, seaman'. Unfortunately no publication details are given.
Heaman, who is reported here to be an Englishman (although other reports suggest he was Swedish), and Gautiez, a Frenchman, were convicted of piracy and murder at the High Court of Admiralty in Edinburgh. It is the only capital conviction for a crime beyond Scottish shores. They were hanged within the flood-mark on Leith Sands, opposite the Royal Naval Dockyard.
The High Court of Admiralty was abolished in 1830 and its powers absorbed by the High Court of Justiciary.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of THOMAS BLACK, who was Executed at the Head of Libbertoo [Libberton's] Wynd, Edinburgh, this morning, Wednesday the 10th December, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft; and of his behaviour since his Condemnation, and at the Place of Execution.' It was published in Edinburgh for R. Forrest and sold for one penny.
Thomas Black and his accomplice, John Reid, were both tried for breaking into the house of Mr Alexander White of South Leith and stealing a number of his possessions. The jury found them both guilty, but on account of their youth recommended them to mercy. The judge, meanwhile, having no such consideration for their fate, sentenced both young men to be executed. Whilst Reid received a reprieve soon after, Black was executed for the crime of housebreaking.
The many crime reports that form part of the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection offer a fascinating insight into crime and punishment in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland. Whilst the penalty of death might appear unusually harsh in the case of Thomas Black, execution was in fact a common punishment for housebreaking and theft at this time.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of James Wemyss, Umbrella Manufacturer, Grassmarket, Edinburgh, who was Hanged there on Thursday the 16th day of April, 1840, for the Cruel and Barbarous Murder of his own Wife, or reputed Wife, on the 27th of January last.' The sheet was printed by Menzies of Edinburgh.
Wemyss and his wife, Sally McRavey, who had once been tinkers, had settled in Plainstane Close, Edinburgh. However, they were prone to drinking and it is while both were arguing and in a 'state of beastly intoxication' that Wemyss murdered his wife. He then put her to bed and made his escape. He was caught soon after, tried and condemned. He was around 40 years old.
Although this report only hints at it, the executioner, John Scott, made a mistake in his first attempt at the drop. He didn't take the correct bolt out, much to the crowd's horror. An official noticed and soon Wemyss was 'launched into eternity'.This execution notice begins: 'A Full, True, and Particular Account of the EXECUTION of JAMES BELL, late private in the 5th Dragoon Guards, who was Executed this morning, at the head of Libberton's Wynd, for the murder of Serjeant-Major Moorhead; together with his confession, his behaviour in the Jail and on the Scaffold, and a short Sketch of his Life.' It was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh's High Street in 1835.
Irishman Bell had shot his Sergeant-Major, after he had been refused leave. It is reported that Bell was very repentant for his crime, 'paying particular ttention to the religious instructions communicated to him by the Rev. Mr Hunter of the Tron Church'. The Tron Church is still standing, just off the Royal Mile, in Hunter Square. Presumably named after this same Reverend Hunter. The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside detailing Bell's trial.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'Dennis Doolan and Patrick Redding were executed yesterday morning at Crosshill, about three miles north of Glasgow, in pursuance of the sentence of the Justiciary Circuit Court'. This sheet was published by Menzies.
There are other reports of this case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, which suggests that the case was of some public interest at the time. Very little information about the crime is given here, although it is known from other sheets that the subjects were convicted of murdering the railwayman John Green, was working on the building of the Edinburgh to Glasgow railway. This narrative mainly relates the particulars of their hanging, which was attended by a crowd of 50,000 people.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'An Account of the Execution of John Stuart and Catherine Wright his wife, for the Murder of Robert Lamont, by poison, on board of the Toward Castle Steam Boat.'
This sheet mainly deals with the time between the sentencing of Stuart and Wright and their execution, and the National Library of Scotland holds another broadside detailing the offence and trial. It was very common for a series of broadsides to be printed which followed the development of a particular case. This generally involved a report on the crime itself, the apprehension of the suspects, the trial and sentencing, the execution and, finally, the last words.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of an execution begins: 'Account of the Execution of Elizabeth Nicklson, or Shafto, or Jeffrey, who was Executed in front of the Jail, this morning, for a Double Murder.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow. Wear and tear on this broadside makes some words quite difficult to read.
The condemned woman was found guilty of poisoning two people in the village of Carluke, for no obvious motive other than that she owed one of them five pounds. It is believed that she might have got away with her crimes had she not insisted on suspiciously quick burials for the victims. The broadside author notes that an unsuccessful appeal against the execution was made by 'a few Quakers and other eccentric individuals'. The tone suggests that the author was a keen supporter of capital punishment. Elizabeth Jeffrey was executed on May 21, 1838 for poisoning two people in Carluke.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'An account of the Execution of two Servant Girls, Bridget Butterfly and Bridget Ennis, who suffered at Kilmainham Jail, on Friday the 4th of May, 1821, and their bodies given to Surgeon's Hall, for dissection, for the murder of Miss Thompson, a young lady, in whose house they once lived; to which is added, the whole confession they made of the Murder on the morning of their Exceution.' The sheet was published by William Carse, who is listed as working from various addresses in Glasgow between 1820 and 1836.
This broadside describes an execution of two servant girls at Kilmainham Jail, Dublin, who were sentenced to death for murdering their former mistress. With both of the accused poverty-stricken, it seems that the motive for the murder was one of financial gain - with which they would then flee to England. Certainly, the terrible violence of the attack is completely out of proportion to the stated aim of robbery. The report ends with a stern warning to servants, advising them to beware of jealousy and ill-will.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Sad news I have now to tell, / News of her death will gang far awa'; / She coon can tell, she kens hersel', / She'll get the hangman's fa'.' Chorus: 'O waes me, / My days do wear awa'; / I wish I were but free again / From the hangman's fa'.' This song was written by John McLean, a coalminer.
John Mclean's ballad is based on a real case. On August 3rd 1835 Elizabeth McNeil or Banks was hanged in Edinburgh for poisoning her husband Peter Banks with arsenic. Contemporary reports of the crime reveal that Peter Banks, a collier, was an abusive man, but also record that Elizabeth Banks had repeatedly stated that she would one day be executed. This unusual fact is referred to in verse four of the ballad.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This execution report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of Thomas Conner and Bell M'Menemy, who were Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday Morning, the 22d October 1828, for Assault and Robbery ; together with their Behaviour since their Condemnation, and at the place of Execution.'
Conner (or Connor) and McMenemy were executed at Jail Square, which was located in the Saltmarket area of Glasgow, for the assault and robbery of Alexander McKinnon. Their executioner was Thomas Young, who was hangman in Glasgow and elsewhere between 1815 and 1834. According to A.F. Young in 'The encyclopaedia of Scottish executions 1750-1963' (1988), McMenemy was the first woman to be hanged in Glasgow since Agnes White, who was executed in 1793 for poisoning her five-month old child.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.Verse 1: 'O Curs'd Atropus cruel Wife ; / Rob'd us of Hary tane his Life ; / Who boor your Armour and the Knife, / Cut many's Thread, / And pat an End to meikle Strife, / But now he's dead.' A different elegy, 'by another hand' is given below. It begins 'An has ald Death come in his Rage, / Cut Hary's Breath, and aff the Stage'. There are no publication details given.
Probably written around 1720, the tone of the first elegy is respectful, although the second author seems to have had a more personal relationship with the executioner. The National Library of Scotland also holds broadsides concerning the next two Edinburgh hangmen, Sutherland and John Daglees or Dalgleish. Sutherland, mentioned in this piece, was banished in 1722. Dalgleish died around 1730.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This memorial notice begins: 'Elegy and Epitaph on Thomas Williams, Late Dempster, or Hangman, of the City of Edinburgh'. The dedication under the title begins: 'Who died the 5th of January 1833, aged 66 years. He was upwards of 12 years in that capacity, and conducted himself with wonderful propriety, which few does in his line. This shows, that whatever occupation in life we follow, a man may keep his character somewhat blameless.' The first line of the elegy itself reads, 'SCARCE had the infant year begun', while the opening line of the epitaph reads, 'HERE lies TAM WILLIAMS, our city Dempster'. A 'dempster' was a legal officer who repeated the sentence after the judge.
This broadside contains a song of mourning dedicated to the memory of Thomas Williams, who worked as a hangman - or doomster - in Edinburgh from 1819 to 1833. The elegy and epitaph are fondly commemorative in tone, virtually saying that somebody had to do this job and that 'Tam' performed his onerous duties well. It appears that the hangman's job became something of a family business, since Tam's son, John, followed in his footsteps. For performing this demanding job, Thomas Williams was given a free house and received a weekly wage of 12 shillings. This wage was known as the 'Doomster's Allowance'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'ELEGY / ON / The Death of PATRICK HAMILTON Younger of Green, who was beheaded at the Grassmerket of Edinburgh, upon the 5th of September 1716'. The elegy begins: 'My weeping Muse procees with murnful Tone'.
This sheet is unusual in that it is not a formal prose notice of Hamilton's execution, but rather is a poetic act of public mourning. Very little is known about Hamilton, except that which is stated here: he is a youth who 'accidentally' killed someone and is now to be hung. It is possible that someone who knew him commissioned this piece or that the case was well-publicised at the time. It is also possible that this poem was a standard plate owned by the printers, who simply changed the name and details for each separate order.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An Account of the last Dying Words and Execution of MRS SHUTTLEWORTH, for the Murder of her Husband, on Friday the 7th December last, 1821, at Montross [Montrose], near Edinburgh.' It was sourced from the 'Montross Review' of the 7th December, 1821, and includes a woodcut illustration of a woman being hanged.
Margaret Tyndall or Shuttleworth was executed for murdering her husband, Henry Shuttleworth, in the public house they ran together in Montrose. Both were partial to a few drinks, and it is said that an inebriated Margaret was put to bed by a servant on the fateful night of her husband's death. The next morning, with no memory of the night before, Margaret discovered the body of her dead husband. Although the evidence was largely circumstantial, Margaret's fate was ultimately sealed by the discovery of a blood-covered poker in her bedroom. As can be seen by her last speech, Margaret protested her innocence until the end.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'THE LAST / CONFESSION / Of Mr. Robert Irvine, who was Execute May 1st, 1717. Near Brughtoun between Leith and Edinburgh, for Murdering John and Alexander Gordons, Sons to James Gordon of Allan, on Sunday the 28th of April 1717.'
There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover this case. This confession seems to be more genuine, heartfelt and human than those of a later date. This sort of report would eventually take on a formulaic style, where only names and dates were really changed. Scotland was also still under the influence of Calvinist and Presbyterian principles. As a result this text does have a spiritual emphasis.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution ballad begins: 'The morning came, the hours flew past:- / Yea, the fatal hour, poor Perrie's last, / Drew near, on which he was to die, / And meet his God, his Judge on high.' Perrie was 'Executed at Paisley, October 18th, 1837'. Under the title a small quotation has been provided: '"He died, as erring man should die, / Without display, without parade."' This broadside was printed by Caldwell and Sons.
Glasgow-born William Perrie was executed for murdering Mary Mitchell, his wife of less than a year, in a fit of jealous rage. His executioner was John Murdoch who, although based in Glasgow, followed the Circuit Courts. Rather than employing their own executioner, it appears that Paisley relied on the services of the Glasgow 'hangman'. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains further broadsides regarding Perrie, including 'a very affecting and interesting letter, written by William Perrie, before his execution'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This memorial notice begins: 'AN ELEGY, / On the much Lamented Death of JOCK HIEGH, who departed to Other Climes, October 20th, 1816, after being Thirty-Six Years / Hangman of Edinburgh.' The elegy begins: 'Ye doggerel bards, quick tune your harps'.
John or Jock Heich, Hiegh, or more properly High, was appointed Edinburgh's hangman in 1778, supposedly in return for dropping the charge of stealing chickens. During his tenure, he oversaw more than 40 hangings and was twice awarded a pay rise. He was buried in Greyfriars churchyard upon his death in 1816. This sheet is one of the few more personal accounts which survive about High.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This account begins: 'An Account of the Execution of ANDREW FULLARTON, who suffered at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 16th August, 1826, for Highway Robbery, between Edinburgh and Dalkeith, on the 18th April last, with his last Dying Confession, and Behaviour on the Scaffold.'
Whilst Fullarton was found guilty and sentenced to be executed for the robbery and assault of James Hunter, the case against one of his accomplices, a Mr Renton, was not proven. A third man known by the name of Reid, who made his escape after the incident, was later arrested and placed in jail. The broadside ends on a strong moral note, with Fullarton denouncing the evils of drink and urging young people to observe the Sabbath and keep 'good company'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside continues: '. . . for the Murder of Mary Fletcher, aged 85, at Candie End, or Curshot, parish ot Muiravonside, who suffered at Stirling, this morning, Oct. 4, 1843, together with his behaviour in the Condemned Cell.' It was published by Muir of Glasgow, and most likely sold for one penny.
Competition was tough amongst the numerous broadside printers in existence, and time was of the essence as each printer strived to be the first with the latest news. This was especially true in crime reporting, where the details of a particular case from the apprehension of the perpetrator to their last words on the gallows were carefully followed. As can be seen here, however, accuracy often suffered: within the first two paragraphs of this report Allan Mair's age is recorded as 80 and 84.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Trial of Alexander Cain, alias O'Kane before the High Court of the Justiciary, Edinburgh, for wounding severely on the head, and other parts of the body, Archibald Stewart, Cattle-dealer, while in Stirling, and robbing him of One Thousand and Ten Pounds ster. -who was found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged, at Stirling, on Friday the 21st of February, 1812.' This sheet was published in Glasgow by Thomas Duncan.
This broadside covers one aspect of a case which had its focal point in Stirling. The same day as Cain was tried for his part in a theft committed in Stirling, his two colleagues were hung also in Stirling, having been captured and sentenced previously. There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail the whole case. Although the English is a little difficult to follow, it transpires that Cain was caught because he could not resist showing his money off, and was then to be hung in Stirling, the scene of the crime.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Execution of HANS REGELSON, a Danish seaman, who was executed in front of the Council-Room, Perth, on Friday the 28th of June, 1811, pursuant to his sentence, for committing a Rape on Margaret Budge, of Burntisland, aged 17 ? Also, an account of his Behaviour on the Scaffold.' This sheet was published by the Thomas Duncan, of the Saltmarket, Glasgow.
There are actually two different stories contained on this page, although both cover the same topic - the sensational use and abuse of women. This style of compulsive story was popular and two on a page was good value for money. The first story, concerns the rape of a Burntisland girl by a foreign sailor. The emphasis here, is placed on the sympathy of the crowd for a foreigner dying abroad. There is no mention of Ms Budge. The second story concerns the violent theft of articles from a woman in Hampshire by two soldiers. Neither of these stories concern the Glasgow area, but Duncan had to vary his topics, as he was up against stiff competition in the Saltmarket area.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the Execution of Robert Ferguson, at Inerness, on Friday the 13th of November, for the Murder of Captain Munro, late of the 42d regiment of foot - with an account of his Behaviour, last Speech and dying Declaration, at the place of execution.' It was published by Thomas Duncan of the Saltmarket, Glasgow
This Glasgow-published account of Ferguson's hanging in Inverness draws attention to some of the differences between Highland and Lowland Scotland that were more pronounced in the nineteenth century than today. The execution drew a huge crowd because it was 'so uncommon a spectacle', unlike in Edinburgh, where executions were quite common. It is also noted that the accused addressed the crowd in Gaelic: even as late as 1812 the vast majority of Highlanders spoke Gaelic as a first language.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Execution of ALEXANDER GILLIAN, who was executed at Speyside (the place where the deed was committed) on Wednesday the 14th of November, 1810, for ravishing and murdering Elizabeth Lamb?his body being afterwards hung in Chains, pursuant to his sentence.' This sheet was published by the Saltmarket, Glasgow-based chapbook-man Thomas Duncan.
Although women were protected to a certain extent by rape legislation, there was still a social stigma attached to the victim which often meant that her identity was never revealed. In most cases where the victim was deceased, such as this example, then the name was revealed. This rapist was 'hung in chains' after he was hung, which was a further post-mortem punishment. This was first practised in 1637, but was not legalised until an Act of Parliament was passed in 1752. This barbaric warning was abolished less than a hundred years later in 1834.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the Execution of David Dobie and John Thomson, at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th August, 1830, with an account of their behaviour in Jail and on the scaffold.'
The simple fact that this broadside is the tenth one in a long sequence dedicated to the story of the murder at Gilmerton, shows that publishers were well aware that crime broadsides made the most money. Hence the desire to drag out a horrific crime story for as long as possible, until readers expressed a wish for a new sensation. This broadside describes how the two condemned men conducted themselves at their public execution, and uses the men?s final words about what can happen to a person when intoxicated with 'the demon drink' as a chilling warning to others.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Full, Authentic, and Particular Account of the Execution of PETER HAEMAN and FRANCOIS GAUTIEZ, who were Hanged within Flood-mark, at Leith, on Wednesday the 9th of January, 1822, for the Piratical seizure of the Schooner Jane of Gibraltar, on her voyage to the Brazils, and for the Barbarous Murder of Thomas Johnston, master, and James Paterson, seaman .'..  The other report begins: 'Execution of Peter Heaman and Francois Gautiez for piracy and murder.' Neither of these two sheet have dates printed attached to them, but the right slip has 'January 9 1822' scrawled across it, whilst the left slip still has the price, one penny, attached.
These two broadsides illustrate all the many features and functions of the archetypal broadside. Broadsides contained today's news or at least news of today's interest and were not supposed to be long-term society records. Here a topical and sensational execution is reported on two different sheets. The information was not exclusive to one printer and so there was healthy competition for sales. This sharing of information was often extended to cribbing each other's or newspaper reports. Finally these reports detail events in sequence and so develop into a full narrative. Whether all on one sheet or made available in instalments, this sequential reporting gave the audience a complete picture.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of the Execution of DAVID HAGGART, who was Hanged at Edinburgh, this morning Wednesday 18th of July 1821, for the murder of THOMAS MORRIN, under Jailor at Dumfries, on the 10th of October last, and his Body given to the Professor of Anatomy for Dissection, together with his Behaviour at the place of Exeecution.' The name of the publisher is not included.
A career criminal, David Haggart was executed for murdering the jailor at Dumfries Jail during an escape. This broadside is especially interesting because of what it reveals about the stranglehold that Calvinism had on Scottish society at this time. For terrible though the sentence is, the judge emphasises that this is nothing compared to the everlasting punishment he will receive in a higher court - unless he repents now. It appears that Haggart heeded this hellfire warning, as the rest of the broadside focuses on his improved behaviour in 'the condemned cell' and on the scaffold.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Execution of CHARLES DONALDSON, Sail-maker, Tolbooth Wynd, Leith, who was Executed this morning at the head of Libberton's Wynd, for the murder of Margaret Marr, his wife.' This sheet was published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh, on the 4th April, 1836.
This broadside tells the dreadful story of how Charles Donaldson was executed for beating his wife, Margaret Marr, to death with a frying pan. It emerged during the trial that Donaldson often beat his wife, as he was fed up with her addiction to drink. The catalyst for the murder appears to have been his wife locking him out from the house. As can be seen from the accompanying woodcut illustration, the broadside focuses much attention on the procession to the scaffold, and how Donaldson conducted himself during his last journey.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the Execution of John Thomson and David Dobie, for the Assault, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, on the 17th April last, with an affectionate Letter sent to Dobie's Wife.' This sheet was published by Robertson and Thomson of Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
This broadside combines an eye-catching mixture of text and woodcut graphics to describe the execution of The Gilmerton Murderers, David Dobie and John Thomson. The opening woodcut image is of the public scaffold, followed by unflattering sketches of the two murderers that surround a drawing of the victim. This broadside is part of a sequence reporting this particular murder, with the other sheets available for viewing at the National Library of Scotland?s collection.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the execution of JOHN HILL and WILLIAM PORTER, who were executed at Glasgow, yesterday, Wednesday the 12th May 1830, for Assaulting and Robbing William Marshall, an old man of 76 years of age, on the 19th Decem- last ; with their Behaviour since the condemnation and at the place of Execution.' It was published in Edinburgh for Felix O'Neill.
Because John Hill and William Porter were very young, a petition was started in favour of leniancy, which was even signed by some members of the jury. However, the crime was deemed too serious to allow mercy. The items they stole - shoes, glasses, an old handkerchief and 7 shillings - seem paltry today but the 'Bloody Code', designed to protect property rights and make examples of those not respecting them, was in force. At the time a man could be hung for stealing as little as 5 shillings.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A Full and True Account of the Last Speech and Dying Declaration of WILLIAM BURKE, who was Executed at Edinburgh this morning, for Murder, and his body given for dissection ; also of his conduct and behaviour since his condemnation, and on the Scaffold.' This broadside sold for a penny and was published on the day of Burke's execution, Wednesday, 28th January 1829.
Although Burke and Hare are often referred to as body-snatchers they were not in actual fact grave robbers, as this report proves. They did, however, commit a great many murders, and sell the bodies to Dr Knox at Edinburgh Medical School for dissection in his anatomy classes. Hare escaped trial by giving evidence against Burke, who was hanged on 16 counts of murder. Burke was denied the right to a burial, and his skeleton can still be seen hanging in the Medical School.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report of an execution begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of WILLIAM THOMSON, Labourer, who was Executed this day, Thusday, 1st March 1827, at Dalkeith, for Highway Robbery; together with his Behaviour since his condemnation, and at the place of Execution, as also his Last Words on the Scaffold.' The broadside was published by William Henry. The place of publication is not given.
The hanging of William Thomson in Dalkeith was unusual, especially as he had been held in Calton Jail in Edinburgh. Commonly people who committed capital crimes so close to Edinburgh would have been hanged in the city itself, either in the Grassmarket or at the head of Libberton's Wynd. It may be that the nature of Thomson's offence dictated his fate: often highwaymen were hanged at the scene of their crime, and their bodies left there in gibbets as a warning to other potential highwaymen. In this case, however, although Thomson was hanged at the crime scene, his body was taken down and given to his friends for burial.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report of an execution begins: 'A Genuine account of the execution of Thomas Black, who was executed at Edinburgh this day for Housebreaking with a sketch of his life and transactions since his infancy.'
The second paragraph of this report is identical to another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection. In the latter, the text is credited with having been copied from the Edinburgh Star newspaper. This was a common way in which broadsides were assembled quickly and cheaply. Stories could be taken from the larger, more expensive newspapers, and padded out with information that had appeared in earlier broadsides or newspapers. The case itself demonstrates the harshness of Scots law in 1823. The convict, from a poor family, is hanged for housebreaking at only eighteen years of age.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'A Full, and Particular, Account of the Execution of John Wilson, and Duncan Fraser, who were Executed, at the Head of Libberton Wynd, on Wednesday morning the 28th January 1824, for Housebreaking and Theft, with a Particular Account, of their Behaviour since their condemnation, and at the place of Execution.' Published in Edinburgh for James Dogherty, this broadside was sold for a penny.
Wilson and Fraser were caught stealing clothes from a tailor's shop in St Mary's Wynd, Edinburgh. Although their crime would not normally have been punishable by death, they were habitual offenders and the judge believed he had no choice but to send them to the scaffold. The tone of the report is overwhelmingly one of pious regret. In common with many crime reports of the day, this broadside is attempting to teach its readers the lesson that Wilson and Fraser did not learn.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside report begins: 'A full and particular acconnt of the Execution of John Wilson and Duncan Fraser, this day 28th January, for breaking into a shop in St. Mary's Wynd, with an account of their behaviour in Jail and at the place of Execution.' This sheet was published in 1824, in Edinburgh, for the booksellers.
Wilson and Fraser were hopeful that the death sentence would be lifted, because their cellmate, who had been condemed to death for highway robbery, was given respite. It was not extended to them, however, even though their crime seems more trivial. Fraser, whose name is also spelt Frazer here, gave the following speech from the scaffold, 'Good People, take warning by our untimely end. Refain from Sabbath-breaking, and the company of bad women, drinking and swearing, which have been ruin. God be with you all.'
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'The Behaviour, Execution, and Life and Transactions of GEORGE DUFFY, who suffered at Glasgow on the 7th Nov. 1832, for the cruel and brutal Murder of his own Wife, in Drygate Street, in May last. This sheet was published in Glasgow, 7th November 1832 by William Carse.
George Duffy, of Irish-Catholic descent as the report highlights, was renowned for beating his wife, Helen Broady, but on this occasion he went further and held her across the fire in the kitchen. After refusing to have her burns tended too she died after nine days, leaving a fourteen-year-old daughter. This report implies that the physical abuse was unfair because Helen was never provocative. It also emphasises Duffy's drink problem and his eventual repentance of it.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A Particular Account of the Execution of John Baird and Andrew Hardie, who were Hanged and Beheaded at Stirling on Friday the 8th day of September, 1820, convicted of High Treason.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow, and like most of his publications would have probably cost one penny.
The Scottish weavers Andrew Hardie and John Baird were both tried and convicted of high treason and sedition, and sentenced to be executed for their part in the 1820 Rising. Fighting for universal male suffrage, better working conditions and a Scottish parliament, a group of radicals, led by Hardie and Baird, attempted to seize Carron Ironworks, near Falkirk. They were thwarted by the British army, however, who arrested the radicals at Bonnymuir. As this execution notice illustrates, Hardie and Baird died as martyrs to their cause: in Hardie's address to the audience he announced, 'I die a martyr to the cause of truth and injustice'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside continues: '. . . for the Murder of Mary Fletcher, aged 85, at Candie End, or Curshot, parish ot Muiravonside, who suffered at Stirling, this morning, Oct. 4, 1843, together with his behaviour in the Condemned Cell.' It was published by Muir of Glasgow, and most likely sold for one penny.
Competition was tough amongst the numerous broadside printers in existence, and time was of the essence as each printer strived to be the first with the latest news. This was especially true in crime reporting, where the details of a particular case from the apprehension of the perpetrator to their last words on the gallows were carefully followed. As can be seen here, however, accuracy often suffered: within the first two paragraphs of this report Allan Mair's age is recorded as 80, 84 and 85.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'A correct Account of the Execution of JOHN KERR, who suffered at Greenock, on Wednesday the 6th of June, 1827, for the cruel and barbarous murder of his own Wife, with an account of his behaviour since his condemnation and on the Scaffold, and his affecting and interesting Address to the numerous Spectators.' The sheet was printed in Glasgow on the same day as the execution, by William Carse.
This was Greenock's first execution since 1817. A scaffold was erected in front of new church and a huge crowd gathered to witness it. 54-year-old Kerr had been a respected member of the community, with a ship rigging business but a combination of his and his wife's 'intemperance' had led to violence. His 'affecting speech' warns against alcohol abuse. It may have been a fabrication of the publisher's - a device to sell more copies of the story.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins, 'Account of the behaviour in confinement and on the Scaffold, of JAMES GLEN, who suffered at Glasgow on Wednesday the 12th of December, 1827, for the terrible, cruel, and barbarous Murder of his own infant child . . .  with an account of his sorrowful parting with his friends. His body was afterwards given for dissection.' Printed in Glasgow on 12th December, 1827, by William Carse.
James Glen had escaped Glasgow Jail a few months earlier, but had given himself up after finding no-one would harbour him.  Due to the horrific nature of his crime - murdering his child 'to get cease of expense', it is said that 'the case . . . Did not excite much comisseration'. As a final insult, his body was sent for public dissection at Glasgow College.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Behaviour and Execution of ANDREW STEWART and EDWARD KELLY, who were both Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday Morning, in the presence of an immense multitude, for the daring crime of Street Robbery.' This sheet is dated 1st November 1826 and was published in Glasgow by John Muir.
John Muir specialised in reports about criminals, their activities and trials. The two men here were convicted of mugging Fillipa Testi of personal effects. It is curious to note that those featured are accompanied by the their country of origin and religion. A list of those executed in Glasgow for the sixty years previous has also been included. This would have been marketing ploy to make the purchase seem like an especially good bargain.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'Account of the Execution and Behaviour on the scaffold, of JAMES STEVENSON, for highway robbery, who suffered at Glasgow, on Wednesday morning, the 1st of June, 1825; to which is added, his confession and last dying words, which he left with a friend who visited him in jail.' The sheet was published in 1825 by William Carse of Glasgow.
This broadside describes the execution of a young man called James Stevenson, who was sentenced to death for carrying our a highway robbery. After summarising his offence, the broadside's author quickly moves on to report the execution ceremony. Attended by a flock of religious ministers, much of this section is taken up with the concept of achieving redemption through embracing religion. Following the execution scene, the broadside contains a short confession from Stevenson in which he warns others about the many dangers that arise when a person strays from the path of righteousness. The sheet concludes with a short ballad on the subject and a brief biography of Stevenson's life.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Account of the Execution and Behaviour on the Scaffold and since his Sentence, of WILLM. DIVAN, who suffered at Glasgow on Wednesday the 21st of July, 1824, for the Murder of his own Wife, Mary Jamieson, in Paisley Loan, Gorbals, on the 6th day of April last, By cutting her throat, and his body given for dissection.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow in 1824.
This broadside tells the horrific tale of a husband who murdered his wife by cutting her throat, and whose body was discovered by her two children. The report starts off by describing the good character of the deceased woman, and also mentions that no property was taken from the house. In turn, this shifts suspicion on to the husband, a former weaver from Donegal in Ireland, who denied the crime. Pronouncing him guilty, the sentencing judge strongly advises him to make his peace with God before entering into the next world. The rest of the sheet describes his behaviour in the condemned cell and on the scaffold.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Account of the Behaviour since his condemnation, and on the scaffold of John M'Creevie, who was Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 2d of June, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft at Springvale, with a solemn warning to his companions, and those who, like him, are running a course which leads to an awful death.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow, who is listed as working from various addresses in Glasgow between 1820 and 1836.
This broadside tells of a man named John McCreevie, who was executed for housebreaking and theft in the village of Springvale, which is now part of the Glasgow conurbation. Although, from a modern viewpoint, the sentence appears to be harsh one, the 'Criminal Code' (called the 'Bloody Code' in England) that existed from 1650 to 1840 was primarily designed to protect property. On many occasions, however, the death sentence was commuted to one of transportation for less serious crimes. Revealingly and unusually, the final paragraph contains an emotional passage regarding why there is so much crime, and controversially concludes that unemployment and poverty is to blame.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Execution of James Anderson and David Glen, who suffered at Ayr, on Friday the 12th of December, 1823, for the Murder of Mr John M'Clure, while returning from Ochiltree Sacrament to Ayr, with an account of their Behaviour in confinement and the prayer which they put up on the scaffold.' A note at the bottom of the sheet states that it was 'printed for the Booksellers' in Ayr.
Set against the gothic background of a storm, this broadside describes the execution of two men, James Anderson and David Glen, who were convicted of murder. After reminding the audience of the men's crimes, the writer concentrates attention on their demeanour and spiritual state of health in the condemned cell. The next setting is the scaffold, where the men make a joint confession in the form of a lengthy prayer, with a great emphasis being placed on earning forgiveness from God. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains other sheets describing the trial and execution of these two men.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution report begins: 'Account of the Execution of FRANCIS CAIN & GEORGE LAIDLAW, for two different crimes, and who suffered at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 29th October, 1823, with their Behaviour since their condemnation and at the Scaffold.' Printed on the same day as the execution, this sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow, who is listed as working from various addresses in Glasgow between 1820 and 1836.
This broadside tells of the violent end that befell Francis Cain and George Laidlaw, who were executed for carrying out a highway robbery and breaking into a jeweller's shop. The tone of this sheet is confessional, with a strong emphasis on redemption through embracing religion. It is also interesting to note the young ages of the two condemned men - a point highlighted by the writer of the sheet. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains other sheets describing the trials and executions of these two men, and it is interesting to contrast the approach to these events taken by different Glasgow publishers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution report begins: 'At Glasgow on Wednesday, the 29th October 1823, of George Laidlaw, for Robbing a Jewellers Shop of Gold and Silver articles to the amount of L.600 sterling, and Francis Cain, for Highway Robbery.' The sheet was published on the 29th of October, 1823, by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside describes the executions of a robber and a highwayman. In the first case, two men were actually convicted of the crime, although only one of the two, George Laidlaw, received the death sentence. Laidlaw was sentenced to death because he was considered to be the instigator and planner of the crime. With its descriptions of tollbooths and coach journeys, the second case tells us much about how people travelled at this time. In this case, it seems that only the ringleader, Francis Cain, was sentenced to death, with his accomplices being sentenced either to transportation or a stay of execution pending a recommendation to mercy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH / AND / CONFESSION / OF / PATRICK M'NICOL, alias CAMPBELL, / Who was executed at Mugdock, upon the 28th of March 1718. for the Murder of John Graham.'
It is not clear from this broadside what the circumstances surrounding McNicol's sentence were, although it does sound like Graham was killed whilst McNicol was attempting to escape from jail. The text is primarily concerned with McNicol's interaction with the ministers and the state of his soul before he met his Maker. Scotland was still under the influence of Calvinist and Presbyterian doctrines, and their impact upon society can be seen in documents like this. It is curious, that it was noted, that most of the conversation occurred in 'the Highland Tongue', showing an awareness of Scotland's linguistic divide at the time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A FULL AND PARTICULAR ACCOUNT OF THE EXECUTION OF Robert Tennant, / Who was Executed at Stirling on Wednesday morning, the 2d of October, for the bloody Murder of William Peddie, an old man, about 70 years of age, on high road between Beancross and Kerse toll, parish of Falkirk. On the evening of the 3d of August last, with his Speech upon the scaffold, also a copy of his Lamentation.'
Broadsides were often used as a forum for moral instruction, and since this murder resulted from Tennant's drink habit, the broadside does go on to exhort the evils of alcohol. It does, however, include a lamentation, supposedly Tennant's last words, which is a common feature on broadsides. It was an opportunity to tug at the audience's heart and ask them to look at their own behaviour. There are other reports of this case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'Who was Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday morning the 16th April, 1823, in the presence of 30,000 spectators, for the Murder of Mr. Wm. Howat, and her body given for dissection; with an account of her Dress, Behaviour, and Dying Declaration on the scaffold.' It was published in Glasgow by John Muir.
It was not unusual for huge crowds to gather at a hanging but certain cases attracted more attention than others. This case was extremely popular as the details of it proved to be quite salacious and lurid. After being abandoned by her family and lover but being left with an illegitimate son, Mary MacKinnon opened a public house and brothel. This appeal to the public's morbid curiosity is taken further in this text by the descriptions of her mind, apparel and physicalities.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: '16th April, 1823; with her own account of her Life.' It was published by Mayne and Co of Glasgow.
Mary MacKinnon was sentenced for stabbing a customer, William Howat, to death in her public house and brothel, on South Bridge, Edinburgh. Howat, a clerk by trade, initiated a drunken brawl which MacKinnon ended with a domestic knife. There are other accounts held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail the events on the day of her execution. Here, however, more of her personal details and life are divulged to satisfy the public's morbid curiosity.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A particular account of the EXECUTION of these three unfortunate young men Michael Macintyre, Wm. Paterson and Wardrope Dyer, who were executed at Glasgow, yesterday, 24th Oct. with their dying behaviour.' The sheet dates from 1821.
McIntryre and Paterson were convicted of robbing a fairly large quantity of clothing from the house of John Niven, tanner, in Greenock. Both were habitual thieves and McIntryre especially was hardened to life, saying he 'didn't care a damn' on hearing the sentence. Paterson burst into tears when he was told his life was forfeit. Dyer's case was unconnected but he was also charged with theft by housebreaking. Their executioner was Thomas Young.
The many crime reports that form part of the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection offer a fascinating insight into crime and punishment in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland. Whilst the penalty of death might appear unusually harsh for these men, execution was in fact a common punishment for housebreaking and theft at this time, and was intended very much as a deterrent to others.This execution notice begins: 'A full and true account of the Behaviour and Execution of MARGARET WISHART, who was Executed at Forfar, on Saturday last the 16th June, 1827, for the horrid and cruel murder of her own blind sister. With the proceedings at the place of Execution. Also an account of the dreadful noises which were heard in the house lately occupied by her.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow and probably sold for one penny.
Crime reports were by far and away the most popular amongst the broadside readership; the more gruesome the crime, the more copies sold! In many cases a particular crime could generate a sequence of sheets covering everything from the discovery of a body and the apprehension of the criminal to the trial and, in most cases, the execution of the culprit. This particular execution notice ends with the suggestion that Margaret Wishart caused much disturbance after her death by haunting her old house in Orchard Road, Arbroath.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH AND CONFESSION / OF / Margaret Crooks, who was Executed at the Grass-Market of Edinburgh, the twenty fourth of December 1718. for the Murthering her own Child.' This sheet was printed in 1718, by a publisher who had premises 'at the Foot of the Horse Wynd', Edinburgh.
It is interesting to note many oblique features of eighteenth century society in this text. The Church had begun to be involved in some aspects of rudimentary education for younger children, especially in non-urban areas. Here Margaret's lack of education, poverty and her pregnancy out with marriage are linked as ideas. Furthermore, the Calvinist and Presbyterian religious principles, so prevalent in Scotland, are highlighted as the Minister publicly questions Margaret about her pregnancy and involves 'parishioners' in discovering her secret. Finally, Margaret was caught because there was a fire at her house because she left the hearth untended - a continual domestic hazard.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account of an execution begins: 'An account of the Execution of that Horrid Villain JOHN THOMAS, who was Hanged in front of York prison, on Tuesday the 16th of January, 1822, for the inhuman murder of Margaret Thomson, a farmer's wife, and of Mary Harris, a girl of eleven years of age:- Also, his Dying Speech at the place of execution.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
Today John Thomas would probably be recognised as a serial killer, a term that had not been coined in 1822. His crimes appear to have been motivated principally by a desire to harm and kill, and the report notes that on his arrest, Thomas admitted to 'several other shocking murders'. His dying speech, which attributes his criminality to alcohol, loose women and sabbath-breaking, follows conventions of the period and reveals little about Thomas. It was probably written by one of the ministers who attended Thomas after his conviction.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report of an execution begins: 'An account of the Life and Execution of John Stewart and Catherine Wright, his wife, who were Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 19th August 1829, and the bodies given for dissection, for the horrible murder and robbery of Robert Lamond, on board the Toward Castle steam boat, on the 15th December 1828; with the manner in which they behaved since receiving sentence.'
Stewart and Wright's case caused a sensation in Scotland when they confessed to ten more murders after their trial. Their method was to poison their victims with laudanum, then rob them. With the trial of Burke and Hare coming less than a year previously, citizens of Glasgow and Edinburgh were deeply concerned about public safety and law and order, and some of the many broadsides covering Stewart and Wright's case expressed these concerns.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'EXECUTION. / A full and particular account of the Execution and behaviour of JOHN M'KANA, alias M'KENA, and JOSEPH RICHARDSON, for the crime of uttering as genuine false and forged notes, who were EXECUTED at Dumfries, on Wednesday the 14th day of May, 1823.' It was printed by McLachlan of Dumfires, and was probably priced at one penny.
Although William Richardson, Joseph's brother, was also convicted for the same crime and condemned to die, the Magistrates received a letter from Robert Peel, Secretary of State for the Home Department, stating that his Majesty had granted William a reprieve. Joseph Richardson and John McKana (also spelt M'Canna and McKena) were offered no such reprieve, however, and were executed in front of the prison at Buccleuch Street, Dumfries. McCanna was a 39 year old Irish emigrant. He married a Lockerbie woman and worked as a roadman. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes another broadside, printed by John Muir of Glasgow, which also details the execution and behaviour of the two men.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution report begins: 'A particular account of the Execution of JOHN CRAIG and JAMES BROWN, who were executed at Paisley, on Thursday 29th of October, 1829 for the crime of Stouthrief.' 'Stouthrief' refers to robbery with violence.
A third man by the name of Robert Stewart, also involved in the robbery, was 'outlawed' for not appearing in court. John Craig and James Brown, meanwhile, were both executed outside the County Buildings in Paisley. With no resident 'hangman' of its own Paisley used the services of the Glasgow executioner, who at this time was Thomas Young. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes at least three other broadsides detailing Craig and Brown's execution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'An Account of the Behaviour, Confession and Execution of John Howison, who was executed at Edinburgh, this morning, Saturday, the 21st January, 1832, for the Inhuman Murder of an old Woman, in her own house, at Cramond.'
In the first paragraph of this broadside reference is made to the execution of Gow and Beveridge. James Gow and Robert Beveridge were both executed on the 2nd December 1831 for murdering their respective wives. Another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection offers Gow's dying speech. The broadside seen here is decorated by a woodcut showing a hanged man. Woodcuts were printed from a design cut in relief along the length of the grain. They were often rather crudely made and generally lacked much detail. Printers were renowned for reusing the limited selection of woodcuts in their possession. Whilst in this instance the woodcut is appropriate, in many cases the illustration selected bore no relevance to the topic of the broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Genuine and latest Account of the Excution of John Campbell who suffered at Stirling on Friday last, the 14th of May 1824 shewing the Lamentable manner in which he cried aloud for mercy, with an account of his affecting farewell with his aged Father ; also an account how he seized hold of rope when he was thrown off.'
Campbell, a thief, would not accept his fate peacefully and in the weeks before the execution his upsetting wails from the cells could be heard by passers by. So desperate was he to live that he grabbed the noose as the floor went from under him. This broadside was printed the same day as the execution, and perhaps the copy should have been checked more thoroughly - it promises an account of the prisoner's farewell to his father, and there isn't one!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of JOHN M'GRADDY, who was Executed at Stirling, on Friday the 26th May, 1826, containing the particulars of his Trial, and his behaviour since the time he received sentence of death, and at the place of Execution.'
John McGraddy was executed for breaking into the house of the Reverend Mr McCall of Muiravonside and stealing a number of items. This included a sum of money which, to make the crime all the more shocking, had been collected for the deaf and dumb institution of Edinburgh. An accomplice is mentioned, but his identity is not disclosed. As illustrated here, emphasis was often placed on a criminal's remorse over his or her misconduct and the valuable moral lesson it afforded the reader. Despite this, most people simply appreciated the reports for their entertainment value and their shock factor.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'The last Words and Declaration of Jannet Shank, / Who was Execute in the Grass mercat of E- / dinburgh, upon the 7 day of February, 1711 / for the Crime of / Child-Murder. / According to Sentence of Justice, her Right Hand was cut off by the Common Hangman; and was drawn up the Gibbet by a Pilly, and Hang till she was Dead. Her Hand is to be set up at Dumfriece.'
There are many broadsides contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection recounting the execution of women for child-murder - indeed it is the crime predominantly committed by women sentenced to execution. The heinousness of the action lay in the taking of an innocent life rather than the murder itself. There are, however, very few cases where the woman's right-hand is focused on: this is quite an usual occurrence. Perhaps it is the hand with which Shank committed the crime.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Execution of these two unfortunate Young Men, JAMES WILSON and JOHN M'DONALD, who were Hanged at Glasgow on Wednesday the 4th of June, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft; with an account of their behaviour in the Prison and at the place of Execution.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow on 4th June 1823.
Often reports of executions included a transcipt of the condemned man's last words. In this instance, a transcript of an 'Address to the Spectators at the Execution' is included instead. The speaker who gave the address is not named, but it is likely that it was one of the magistrates or ministers who attended the execution. Here, as in many broadsides of the period, the usual vices are blamed for a life of crime: 'Sabbath day breaking, evil company, and intemperance'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'This Morning JAMES CAMPBELL underwent the last sentence of the law . . . for breaking into the cellar-store of Messrs. Watson, M'Night & Co. . . . on the 23d February last, and stealing therefrom four boxes and a basket full of cotton yarn.' It was published on 16th May 1831 by John Muir, who, although no address is given, is known to have worked out of Glasgow.
James Campbell had already been sentenced to death for housebreaking, at Glasgow in 1822 but had his sentence was commuted, to transportation for life. It turns out he never did leave, and served his time aboard hulks on the River Thames. He was released in August 1820 and soon returned to crime. Now aged 36, he was not to be given another chance.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An Account of the Last Days, Behaviour and Execution of JAMES BRYCE, Labourer, who was Executed here this morning, 3d April, 1844, for the Murder of his Brother-in-Law, John Geddes, at Blaw Wearie, parish of West Calder, on 27th December last.' There is a woodcut illustration of gallows and body included above the title. This illustration is quite common on execution notices.
This case must have caused a stir at the time as there are other sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection covering the progression of the case. Both the trial details and a more personal account of the crime and Bryce's state of mind were also published. Here, however, the hours before his execution are described and then the manner of his death.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This execution report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Execution of James Brown, and John Craig, who suffered the last sentence of the Law in front of the New Jail of Paisley, for Breaking into the House of Mr. Robertson at Foxbar, and stealing a quantity of property and ill using the inmates; also an account of their behaviour since their trial and at the place of Execution.' Although there are no publication details included on this sheet, it was probably published in 1829.
This broadside tells of the tragic fate that befell James Brown and John Craig, who were executed at Paisley Jail in 1829 for housebreaking and theft. The writer emphasises that it is rare for Paisley to witness a public execution, and he proceeds to describe some of the previous executions that took place in the town. The sheet concludes by focusing on the behaviour of the two condemned men, and their hope that their earthly contrition will help their case when they face up to the ultimate judge in the next world.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, this execution report continues: 'For the cruel Murder of John Green, ganger or superintendent of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway at Crosshill, on the 10th December last; with a brief account of their Life, Trial, and a short sketch of the horrid deed for which these unfortunate men suffered the last penalty of the law.' The sheet was published by Thomas Walker of Edinburgh in April 1841.
This broadside tells of the tragic end that befell Dennis Doolan and Patrick Redding, who were executed in Bishopbriggs, Glasgow, on the 23rd of April 1841. The two railway workers were found guilty of murdering their supervisor, John Green, during the building of the Glasgow to Edinburgh railway. A third man, James Hickie, was also found guilty, but was later reprieved. It seems that the authorities were worried that there would be trouble at this execution, and several regiments of soldiers were appointed to control the crowd of 50,000. The execution went ahead without any trouble, however, and the pair were executed by John Murdoch, who received 24 for performing this work - which is about 1,170 in today's terms.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A particular account of the Execution of Hannah Halley, at Derby, on Monday last, March, 26, 1822, for the inhuman Murder of her own new-born infant, by crushing it into a jug, and pouring boiling water on it, with her reasons for committing the barbarous act.' The report was taken from the 'London Courier'.
It was relatively unusual for stories from other parts of the country to be published in Scotland. However, if it was a particularly shocking, interesting, or unusual story, it would sometimes be picked up by Scots publishers eager to boost sales. This sad story of a mill worker who tried to conceal her pregnancy and then, in what seemed to be a state of panic, killed her newborn child is one such example.
It was common for the publishers of broadsides to take information from other sources, most often newspapers, but sometimes other broadsides. Nowadays we are protected by copyright legislation, but in the mid-nineteenth century no such laws were in place.This execution notice begins: 'correct and Particular Account of the Execution of CHARLES McEWEN, commonly called "The Cock of the North", who was Hanged on Wednesday the 7th April 1824, for the Barbarous Murder of Margaret Mooney, in October last, on a Moor in Aberdeenshire ; and his Body given to dissection, with his Behaviour at the Place of Execution.' This sheet was published in Edinburgh on the 7th April 1824 by Alexander Turnbull.
Broadsides were produced quickly and cheaply so that the information contained in them would be relevant to the moment and cheap to buy. This sheet, however, is badly set. It cuts off mid-sentence and mid-paragraph at the bottom of the page and begins mid-sentence also. The information reported in it is equally hit and miss. The victim is reported as Margaret Mooney although she is called Elizabeth in other reports. It is also claimed that Mooney and McEwen had only known each other a week when they had been together for over a year. McEwen's assertions of innocence, however, do seem to have been correctly reported. This story was widely covered at the time and other broadsides on this case, are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An Account of Christian Sinclair, Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday last, for murder, with her Behaviour at the Place of Execution.' The name of the publisher is not included.
This broadside tells the tragic story of Christian Sinclair, from Kirkwall in the Orkneys, who was executed in Edinburgh in 1813 for poisoning her brother's illegitimate infant daughter with arsenic. As no motive or defence is offered by the prisoner for her evil deed, the tone here is very much one of demonising the woman. In short, her behaviour appears to be inexplicable. The sheet then moves on to describe her behaviour during her confinement in 'the condemned cell' and on the scaffold.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A correct and Particular Account of the Execution of CHARLES M'EWEN, commonly called "The Cock of the North," who was Hanged on Wednesday the 7th April 1824, at the head of Libberton Wynd, Edinburgh, for the Barbarous Murder of Margaret Mooney, in October last, on a Moor in Aberdeenshire; and his Body given for Dissection, with his Behaviour at the Place of Execution.' The broadside was published by Alexander Turnbull of Edinburgh on April 7th 1824, and priced at one penny.
Although this report claims to contain a 'particular account' of the execution of Charles McEwen, the scene at the scaffold is barely mentioned, unlike some other broadside reports of executions which describe the hanging in great detail. Instead, this broadside is concerned mainly with the life of the condemned man, and the circumstances of his crime. What stands out about Charles McEwen is his restlessness. He apparently had children by several women, and travelled widely around the north of Scotland. He also used several names, suggesting he had committed previous crimes. It is noted in the broadside that even while manacled and awaiting execution, McEwen could not contain his restless spirit.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution speech begins: 'THE / Last Speech / of / COLL OXBURGH, / Who was executed at TYBURN MAY 14th, 1716. / Delivered by him to the Sheriffs, and Printed at LONDON by their Order.' This sheet was published by William Adams Junior in 1716.
The term 're-printed' is mentioned in the details along the bottom. Often stories were copied from printer to printer, both to save time and money, or plates were reused if the case was ongoing to make the most of the typesetting. This one was 'folded' at the printing house opposite the Tron Church. Different parts of the process were carried out by different trades and often the distributor was separate again. Finally, Adams is known to have been imprisoned for printing texts disparaging the established church - a political forum was another broadside role. Henry Oxburgh was one of a group of prominent Jacobites executed at Tyburn for their part in the rebellion of the previous year.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A Full and Particular account of the Execution of John Craig and James Brown, who suffer'd the last sentence of the law, in front of the New Jail of Paisley, for Breaking into the House of Mr Robertson, at Foxbar, and stealing a quantity of Property, and ill-using the inmates : also an account of their behaviour since their trial, and at the place of Execution.'
This broadside begins with a potted history of executions in Paisley, mainly those of Alexander Provan and Thomas Potts, before touching on the case of John Craig and James Brown. Both men were executed on the 29th October, 1829, at County Square, Paisley, for the crime of stouthrief, which in Scots law means robbery with violence. It is said that both men were highly repentant and begged Robertson's forgiveness. Compared with many other execution reports, which go on at great length and contain every grisly detail, this is an unusually short and straightforward account.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'An account of the Execution of Charles M'Ewan at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 7th April, for the Murder of Margaret Money, on the Firmouth Hill, in Aberdeenshire, with his behaviour in Jail, and at the place of Execution.' Published in Edinburgh by the city's booksellers.
This broadside appears to have been hastily assembled, indeed it was published almost immediately after the events it recounts. The National Library of Scotland holds several reports relating to this case and this one has almost exactly copied the wording of previous accounts, but also includes some fresh text giving the most up to the minute information about the proceedings of McEwan's execution.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred.This broadside begins: 'Just Published, the Last Speech, Confession and Dying Declaration of JOCK HEIGH, the Hangman; also an Account of his Strange an Siungular Behaviour on the Scaffold, on Monday morning, at the Execution of James Bell, with some just Remarks on that Shameful occasion.' Published by Wallam (William) Reid, of Edinburgh, in 1835.
Jock Heigh's real name was John High, and he was appointed in 1778. A good servant of the city, he hanged over 40 culprits, and, unlike those who came after him, was very careful never to cause any unnecessary suffering to those he hanged. He was buried in Greyfriar's Churchyard upon his death in 1816.
The real point of this broadside is to lambast the incompetent hangman, John Williams, who was in post for only four months in 1835. The execution of Private James Bell was a fiasco and Williams was lucky to escape the near-rioting crowd. He was stoned as he escaped down Libberton's Wynd and resigned from his post the next day.This report of an execution begins: 'Account of the Execution of ANDREW STEWART and EDWARD KELLY, who suffered in Glasgow on Wednesday morning, 1st November, 1826, for Street Robbery with an account of their Behaviour in confinement and on the Scaffold.' It was published on 1st November 1826 by William Carse of Glasgow.
Stewart's victim, Filippo Testti, is called a 'foreigner' in the report, as well as being identified as a looking-glass manufacturer. Testti was probably an Italian immigrant to Scotland. From the start of the industrial revolution in the late eighteenth century, migration to Scotland increased dramatically, but until almost the end of the nineteenth century any Italian immigrants tended to be specialist craftsmen, like Testti. Although no racist motive is imputed to Stewart in this broadside, the new waves of incomers to Scotland certainly encountered suspicion and hostility in some quarters.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of a double execution begins: 'An account of the Behaviour and Execution of ANDREW STEWART and EDWARD KELLY, who were both Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday Morning, in the presence of an immense multitude, for the daring crime of Street Robbery.' The publisher was John Muir of Glasgow.
This is one of two broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection that describe Stewart and Kelly's execution, and small discrepancies between the two reveal how the author of this broadside tried to make it appeal to the public. Whereas the other report suggests that the crowd for the execution was smaller than usual, this account describes the 'great multitude' present. Likewise, the 'some others' who were Stewart's accomplices become, in this report, 'villains so numerous that they frightened away every person'. The highly excitable tone of the broadside is signalled at the very start, when Stewart and Kelly's offence is described as the 'daring crime' of street robbery.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH and Dying Words of James Shepherd who was Exceuted for high Treason.' A note at the bottom of the broadside informs the reader that it was printed in Edinburgh in 1718.
High treason was considered at this time to be the most serious of captial crimes. Any activities that were deemed a betrayal of one's country and were thought to pose a serious threat to the monarchy were considered treasonous and, as such, carried a severe penalty. Men found guilty of high treason were hung, drawn and quartered. This involved the man being dragged or drawn to the gallows, hanged and cut down whilst still alive, his stomach cut open and entrails removed and burned, his head cut off and body divided into four parts. The head and four parts were often put on public display to act as a deterrent. For the same crime, women were burnt at the stake.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'This production of Alexander Pennicuick [Pennecuik] possesses considerable humour. The last speech begins: 'QUHAN Hangie saw death drawing near, / The carle grew in ane unco fear'. Printed under the title is the note, '[From Pennicuick's MSS. Advocate's Library]'.
As the text goes on to reveal, the author of this piece, Alexander Pennecuik (d. 1730), was the nephew of Dr Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722). Both men were well known for their humorous and topical verse, and several examples of their work can be found in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection. Here, Pennecuik has wryly written a last speech for the eighteenth-century Edinburgh hangman, John Dalgleish. For someone who witnessed the last speeches of those he executed, it was a novel idea to imagine one of his own creation. 
 Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Who was Hang'd at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 23d of September 1759 for Marrying three and twenty Husbands; with her Life and Conversation, and an exact Accompt of all her Husbands Names, their Places of abode, and the Lasses they systain'd by her : Together with her Farewel to the World.'
During much of the eighteenth century, Tyburn tree was the main place of public execution for the London area. The condemned prisoners were held in Newgate prison before making the journey to the gallows. This broadside gives a brief summary of the Mary Baker case and a final speech by the condemned prisoner in which she lists all of her husbands, mostly by name. Whether these words were in fact her own is not known for sure. Last speeches were often written to a formula, which included repentence and religious enlightenment.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins with an invocation followed by a narrative, and ends with an admonition. The invocation begins: 'Ye Sons of Satan, Candidates of Hell, / Listen unto the serious Truths I tell'. The narrative begins: 'I With this hellish Wretch's Life begin / A black Account, yet bright Display of Sin'.
This broadside was intended to act as a severe warning to anyone who rejected God. By instilling fear in the readership, it was hoped that people would follow the 'righteous path'. Sentenced to be executed for committing infanticide, Margaret Dickson is portrayed as an evil and sinful woman who followed the ways of the devil: 'For when the heart's not bolted aginst Sin, / It [l]et's the Devil and Damnation in.' Although she was hanged in the Grassmarket, she dramatically revived en route to Musselburgh for burial. She was set free and lived to a ripe old age having many children.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'Being the Last Dying Speech and Confession of these two unhappy lovers, JOHN CAMAISH and CATHERINE KINRADE . . . For . . . Murder of Mrs Camaish.' This sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
On 18th April, 1823, Kinrade and Camaish were sentenced to execution on the Isle of Man for poisoning Kinrade's sister, Mrs. Camaish, whilst she was pregnant, so that John and Catherine could be together. An account of this case also appeared in the local newspaper the 'Manx Sun' on 22 April 1823. Both of the executed pair were apparently from Lezayre parish in the north of the island. Although this incident happened in the Isle of Man, the moral lesson and horror of the story travelled effortlessly to Glasgow. It illustrates how avid audiences were for news and entertainment.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'The die is now cast, the sword of Justice has been bared and is about to descend on his devoted head. His days are numbered, the sixth day of March being the one fixed for execution.' The sheet was published by McIntosh & Co. of Edinburgh.
E.T. Salt, an apparently well-respected and liked tailor, had killed his drunken wife, whose 'intemperance [was] constantly spoiling the harmony of the family'. After a prose introduction, there follows a poem about the condemned man in his cell. Following this there is a favourable character analysis of Mr Salt.
The author is sympathetic to Salt's predicament throughout and ends by mentioning that a petition had been organise, to try to have Salt's sentence commuted. One 'lady of Edinburgh' is even criticised for not signing it.This account begins: 'An account of the most remarkable Trials and Executions which took place in Scotland for above 300 years, against the persons who suffered for Witchcraft, Adultery, Fornication, &c. &c.' The sheet was printed by John Muir of Princes Street, Glasgow, some time between 1821 and 1839.
Many different crimes are detailed on this sheet, from a Jesuit, executed in 1615 for being more loyal to the Pope than the King, to two adulterers who were banished from Scotland in 1762. It shocks and also deters the reader, for fear of what could happen to them. For example, it reports that the law regarding adultery is still in force. This may have worried a few people!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'At Carlisle, on Monday the 16th March, for the wilful Murder of JOHN ELLIOT, a poor Pack Boy, on Eastdale Moor, on the 8th day of August, 1834.'  This sheet was published by Francis McCartney and would have cost a half-penny to buy.
Broadsides were sold to a captive audience, since there were very few other forms of entertainment available to the poorer members of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century society. As a result, sensational or morally outrageous stories from up and down the country would be distributed. Despite the high levels of illiteracy and poverty, these stories would have reached a large section of the population, as they were intended to be read in public, to groups of people.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This lament begins: 'I Think Auld Reikie's now grown Daft, / To Change my Lord Provo so aft, / For ae poor shot o' wrang cad waft, / They've Banish'r me: / I was the Deacon o' my Craft, / An boor the Gree.' An illegible hand-written note has been included under the title, along with the date 25th July 1722.
Sutherland was the Edinburgh hangman. He lost his post and was whipped and banished from the city on 25th July 1722. John Daglees or Dalgleish supplanted him. The National Library of Scotland also holds a broadside printed at the end of Dalgleish's tenure, entitled, 'The last speech and dying words of John Dalgleish, lock man alias hang-man of Edinburgh'. 
Another broadside which the National Library of Scotland holds, 'Elegy, on the Death of Hary Ormiston, late Hangman of Edinburgh', celebrates the career of Harry Ormiston, who was Sutherland's predecessor.This execution notice continues: 'Who was Executed at TYBURN MAY 14th, 1716. / Delivered by him to the Sheriffs, and Printed at LONDON by their Order.' This speech was then republished in Scotland, in the same year, by William Adam's Junior, of the Tron Church, Edinburgh. This sort of cribbing and reprinting was common.
Broadsides were often used as vehicles for political expression, due to the large and varied audience which they could reach. Here Colonel Oxburgh was executed for being a Catholic Jacobite, who supported those who fought at the battle of Preston. Oxburgh, in his speech, highlights the further political tensions caused by changing the line of succession and claims that Catholic or not, it was his duty to support James VII, as the true and rightful king.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This lamentation begins: 'THE SORROWFUL LAMENTATION OF NICOL MUCSHET of BOGHALL. Who was execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh, on the 6th. of January, 1721. For murdering of his Wife: With his last Dying Speech, and Farewell to the World.'
The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes at least two other broadsides regarding this case. The first takes the form of a letter from the condemned prisoner's mother, Lady Boghall, and the second from a man, Alexander Pennecuik, suspected of being an accessory to the murder. Both are addressed to Nicol Mucshet (who is referred to in other broadsides as Muschet or Mushet). It is worth noting that in each, a different spelling of the prisoner's name is used - Mushet, Mushett and Mucshet. In the rush to get a story printed and out on the streets for sale, broadside printers paid little attention to such inconsistencies.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'The Last Speech of Sir GODFREY M'CULLOCH of Myretoun, Knight and Baronet, who was Beheaded at the Cross of Edinburgh, the Twenty Sixth day of March, 1697.' This sheet was published by John Reid of Bells Wynd, Edinburgh, in 1697.
Sir Godfrey MacCulloch of Cardoness Castle was convicted of shooting William Gordon of Cardines in the leg - a wound which he eventually died of. The estate, originally the property of the MacCullochs, had been purchased by the neighbouring Gordon family in 1629. The MacCullochs, however, still claimed the Cardoness lands and there was an ensuing feud.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'THE SECOND SPEECH Being an Account of the behaviour of James Day, in prison and on the Scaffold, on Wednesday the 20th of October 1790.'
The particulars of James Day's crime are left ambiguous in this report. The conviction was for murder, and the author attributes Day's downfall to 'the debauched company of loose women', but scapegoating women for men's violence was a common feature of broadside reports. The final line of the report is intriguing: 'his own account of his wandering the child leaves a suspicion of his being the actual Murderer.'  Day had in fact drowned his own illegitimate child in the Clyde.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This riot report begins: 'A full and prticular Account of five Men that were executed at London for raising a dreadful Mob, in the Behalf of the Pretender.' This report was first printed in London and then reprinted in Edinburgh, although no publishers are given.
This broadside is not dated and the 'Pretender' is not stipulated, 'Old' or 'Young'. The 'Old Pretender', James Edward Stuart, fomented two periods of rebellion in 1689 and 1715. His son, the 'Young Pretender', better known as Bonnie Prince Charlie, has the famous date 1745 attached to him. The convicted Catholic Jacobites are not named in this text, but their Protestant victim is. This suggests that it was a piece of propaganda, if not orchestrated by the government, then at least by their supporters. The riots probably refer to those which took place on 28 and 29 May 1716.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice continues: 'And last words of Thomas Neilson, who was Executed at Maybol, on Thursday, being the 14th of August, 1718. For Mudering one Named M'Connel, is the Parish of Girvan.'
This broadside is actually a relatively detailed account of both the murder and the events afterwards. Many of these texts are quite formulaic and are used as an opportunity for moral education. This piece, however, is more narrative with the inclusion of revealing vignettes, such as, 'the poor woman . . . was sitting with the corps in her arms for a large half hour'. The rationale of the conviction is fully explained, as are Neilson's motives and conscience. Finally it is suggested that Neilson suffered from bouts of madness.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: ' An Account of the Execution of Margaret Henderson, an Interesting Woman of Eighteen years of age, who was Executed at the New Drop, London, on Monday the 15th March, 1824, for the Cruel and Barbarous Murder of her male Bastard Child, by Cutting its Throat, Concealing it in her Bed-room and afterwards Throwing its Mangled Body into the Fire, where it was discovered nearly Burnt to Ashes, by her fellow Servant, and her Body given for Dissection; together with a very Affecting Letter written to her Mother the night before her Execution.' It was published by James Dogherty of Edinburgh in March 1824 and priced at one penny.
As well as the above account of Margaret Henderson's case, this broadside contains cautionary verses allegedly written by the condemned girl, and a letter to her mother written on the eve of her execution. It is unlikely that Margaret Henderson wrote the verses: although the reference to her 'genteel education' indicates she may have been literate, the verses follow a standard formula for moral lamentations that suggests the work of a practised author. The letter may be her own work, perhaps dictated to a churchman attending her.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'For the death of Donald Bayn, alias M'evan Vanifranck, who was Execute in the Grass Market of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 9th Day of January 1723.' The lament begins: 'TOnald Bayn her nane dear Shoy, / Maks a' Folk sad save Robin Roy'.
With the advent of industrialisation there came to be a discrepancy between Highland and Lowland society. This came to be highlighted in literature of the time. Fun was often made of northern accents with their strong Gaelic influence and dress was often commented on with references being made to trews and plaids. Within factual reports of crimes, and often in the court room, attention was drawn to Gaelic speakers and their place of origin.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A sketch of the Conduct, Transactions and Behaviour of DAVID DOBBIE and JOHN THOMSON, who were Executed on Wednesday the 18th August, for Assault, Murder and Robbery, with their Last Dying Confession, and Behaviour on the Scaffold, &c.' This sheet was published by R. Menzies of the Lawnmarket, Edinburgh, and cost three-halfpence.
The numerous sheets published on the subject of the Gilmerton murderers indicate that the crime was a terrific money-spinner for printers of broadsides, and that competition for sales between rival publishers was fierce. The text is broken up with four woodcut images, which give the broadside the look of a modern newspaper. There are a number of broadsides reporting the same subject that were published by different printers, and these other sheets can be found in the National Library of Scotland?s collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'With some of its observations on the infrequency of these occurrences here the Glasgow Chronicle took occasion to favour us last week.' No publication details have been included.
The author of this piece appears to be criticising an article that appeared in the 'Glasgow Chronicle', in which the residents of Paisley were accused of savouring the spectacle of an execution. What then follows is a detailed chronological account of the executions that occurred in Paisley, from the early seventeenth century until the execution of John Craig and James Brown in 1829. A large number of those punished during the seventeenth century appear to have been victims of the notorious witch-hunts that were taking place at this time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside account begins: 'Genuine and latest account of the excution [sic] of John Campbell who suffered at Stirling ?'. There are no details of a date or place of publication.
Campbell, a persistent thief, escaped Stirling Jail while awaiting trial for housebreaking, but was captured just in time to face trial. Here we read a rather gruesome account of his execution. By seizing hold of the rope he prolonged his agony. In another account we read how a doctor tried to revive him by bleeding both temples and the jugular vein but to no avail.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of JAMES STEVENSON, who was Hanged at Glasgow, on Wednesday Morning, the 1st of June, 1825, for Highway Robbery; with an Interesting Account of his Life and Transactions.'
Broadsides can be valuable tools in allowing us to learn more about the society in which they were produced. One phrase in this fairly unremarkable crime report makes its historical context far more vivid: 'Latterly he had been employed in one of the boats in rising sand from the bed of the river.' This alludes to the deepening and widening of the Clyde, an operation which would ultimately be the making of Glasgow as an international centre of trade, shipbuilding and engineering. It is fascinating to read today of this forgotten highwayman using the dredger he was employed aboard as a hiding place for his stolen goods.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A full and particular account of the Execution of William Adams, slater, who was this day, Wednesday the 6th January 1830, Executed at the head of Libberton Wynd, Lawnmarket, for assaulting and robbing Michael Pirnie, mason, on the evening of the 5th September last, of one pound, four shillings, and eightpence, and a tin snuff-box; with his last dying speech on the Scaffold.'
This particular broadside has been illustrated with a woodcut of three figures hanging from the gallows. The vast majority of broadside printers kept a limited selection of woodcuts, which were used time and time again. In many instances the illustration bore little or no relation to the subject of the broadside, and was merely included for decoration. It is possible the printer of this sheet did not possess a woodcut showing one man being hanged. An account of the trial and sentence of William Adams can also be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This sheet begins: 'WHEN Hangie saw Death drawing near, / The Carle grew in unko' Fear, / He sight and fab'd and shed a Tear'. No publication details are on the sheet.
John Dalgleish, or Daglees, replaced Sutherland as Edinburgh hangman in 1722. Dalgleish was a famous figure around the capital, and his name is used to ominous effect in other broadsides, for example, 'Panegyrick on Robert Cowan's Trip to the Tron'. The author of this piece is believed to be Alexander Pennecuik, who died in 1730, making it likely that it was published in the late 1720s.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of SAMUEL MAXWELL, who was Executed at the Head of Libberton Wynd, Lawnmarket, Edinburgh, on Wednesday Morning, the 17th of January, 1821, for Stouthrief and Robbery, committed in the House of Mr Arneil, near Glasgow, last year.' This sheet was published by R. Watson of Edinburgh and cost one penny.
This broadside tells of the trial, confession and execution of Samuel Maxwell or McCormack, for burglary. Maxwell's virtuous confession gives substance to the saying that there is 'honour among thieves', since he tells the court that the other three accused men had nothing to do with the crime, and that he alone was responsible. Although the sentence of death for the relatively minor crime of housebreaking might seem extreme, it should be remembered that the aim of the 'Bloody Code' (called the 'Criminal Code' in Scotland) was to protect property above all else - hence the execution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular account of JOHN DEMPSEY, late Private Soldier in the 13th Regiment of Infantry, who was Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday morning, the given for dissection 13th of December, 1820, for Murder, committed at Greenock, in July last, and his Body given for Dissection ; including his Behaviour at the place of Execution.' This sheet was published by R. Watson of Edinburgh and cost one penny.
After an evening out on the town, Robert Dempsey and his fellow soldiers ended up fighting a group of sailors and some members of the public. One thing led to another, and the angry mob pursued Dempsey and his friends to their lodgings. The soldiers ran upstairs and fired at the mob, killing three of them. Only Dempsey was sentenced to death for these murders, his comrade, Robert Surrage, was banished for life. After summarising the story, the broadsheet reports Dempsey?s last words before he was 'launched into eternity'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice begins: 'A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of the Execution of JOHN RENNIE and WILLIAM SUTHERLAND, who were EXECUTED at Edinburgh on Wednesday morning, the 23rd August, 1821, for Housebreaking and Theft'. This sheet would have sold for a penny.
The judicial system at this time placed more gravity on property crime than anything else. As a result these two thieves were not viewed lightly by the law. This certainly is made clear in the report as the 'aggravated' nature of their offences is stressed. In this case the two men had completed three robberies in a row and there were witnesses to clear any ambiguities. They were then hanged in Libberton Wynd, which was the place where most executions took place.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'Full, True, and Particular Account of the EXECUTION of George Gilchrist, at the head of Libberton's Wynd, on the morning of the third of August, 1831, for the robbery of the Princes Regent, Edinburgh Coach . . . . ?the whole by an eye witness.'
This is one of a number of broadsides held by the National Library of Scotland covering this sensational case. Often, the number of broadsides produced reveals the importance of the case. It is important, however, to also remember that the extant quantities may not be a true representation of the original numbers. Many of these broadsides have survived because they were actively collected by enthusiastic people. As a result, the collections reflect that person's interests and means.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'EXECUTION of that unfortunate young Man, WILLIAM M'INTYRE, belonging to Glasgow, who was Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday morning the 26th Feb. 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft.' It was printed by John Muir of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
The National Library of Scotland's collection also contains a broadside detailing the trial and sentencing of William McIntyre. Both were printed by John Muir of Glasgow and largely contain the same information on the trial, including the Lord Justice Clerk's reaction to the verdict. This broadside, however, also gives a very brief account of McIntyre's execution at Liberton's Wynd. McIntyre's short address to the audience follows a typical style favoured by broadside producers. Whilst it is possible he uttered these words, it is also possible that they were 'placed in his mouth' by the broadside printer - religious and moral instruction from the condemned sold sheets.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account of an execution begins: 'a particular Account of the Behaviour and Execution of WILLIAM LEONARD SWAN, at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 16th May, 1821, for ultering two Forged Five Pound Notes of the Paisley Banking Company, in the month of November last.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow and is dated 16th May 1821.
The sentence of death for forgery appears very harsh, but the judge's decision was probably swayed by Swan's earlier trial for a similar crime where, despite being acquitted, he was warned that the suspicion against him would not be forgotten. The report records that Swan's appeal to the Secretary of State failed because a recent forgery case in Stirling had also resulted in the death penalty. This is a reference to the case of John Fleming, who was executed at Stirling five days before Swan for issuing a forged 5 note.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Execution of WILLIAM DORNAN, and ROBERT SMYTH, who were hanged at Air, on Friday the 26th day of May, pursuant to their sentence, for housebreaking and theft?with an account of their behaviour at the place of execution.' It was printed by Thomas Duncan of 159 The Saltmarket, Glasgow.
The Saltmarket area of Glasgow was renowned throughout the late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth centuries for the quantity of street literature which was produced here. Duncan, in business by himself between 1800 and 1823, was one of three big, rival firms operating from the street during this period. Along with William Carse and John Muir, Duncan competed for Circuit Court lists and execution notices. Duncan was relatively successful during his stint in the Saltmarket, although he twice had to move premises due them collapsing under the weight of the equipment!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Life, Transactions and Executions of Thomas Connor and Bell McMenemy, Executed at Glasgow for Assault and Robbery.' The sheet was printed by John Muir, Glasgow, on 22nd October 1828.
Connor or Conner and McMenemy were both in their early 20s and hailed from County Tyrone, Ireland. From this report it appears that Connor's mother was much to blame for encouraging her son's lawlessness, which is catalogued in the report. McMenemy had never been in trouble until she met the Connor family, but she was soon 'hurried on from one crime to another with a rapidity that gave her no time for reflection'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'This morning Thomas Connor and Bell McMenemy suffered in front of the New Jail, agreable to their sentence. The crowd began to collect this morning by day break'. The sheet was printed by Edwards.
Thomas Connor or Conner, and Isabella, 'Bell', McMenemy were systematic robbers who were sentenced to be hung after they were caught for attacking and robbing boatman Alex McKinnon. Two others were involved in the crimes but were acquitted. Bell would entice men into a quiet place and then the rest of the gang would pounce. Bell was the first woman to be executed in Glasgow since 1793.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of the Execution of David Dobie and John Thomson, for the Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, near Gilmerton, on the night of Saturday the 17th of April, 1830, and who in pursuance of the Sentence of the High Court of Justiciary, were hanged at the head of Libberton?s Wynd, Edinburgh, on the morning of Wednesday the 18th August, 1830, and their bodies afterwards given to Dr Monro, for public dissection.' This sheet was published by Forbes and Owen of Edinburgh.
With rather frightening sketches of the two condemned men underneath the broadside?s headline, this sheet dramatically tells of the execution of murderers, David Dobie and John Thomson. The anonymous writer first gives details of the crime, before describing the behaviour of the men in 'the condemned cell'. The emphasis in this section is very much on atonement and redemption through religion. The 'Second Edition' part of the sheet describes the execution and focuses on how the men conducted themselves on the scaffold.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside report of a confession and execution begins: 'Full, true and Correct Account of the Execution of James Gow, Shoemaker, residing in Bull's Turnpike Stair, High Street, and Thomas Beveridge, blacksmith, residing in Little Jack's Close, Canongate, who was executed his day, the 2d of December, for the cruel and bloody murder of their wives;' It was published by Forbes & Co. in Edinburgh.
The publishers of broadsides were aware that a particularly 'big' or sensational story would retain the public interest over several days or weeks and sometimes several broadsides would be produced covering one case. We can infer from the paragraph beginning 'Beveridge, who our readers will recollect...' that this broadside is not the first to have been produced by this particular publisher on the subject of these murders. The public enthusiasm for murder cases and executions is also made apparent by the reference within the broadside report to the 'great concourse of people assembled' for the hangings. It was customary for broadsheet authors to comment on the size of the crowd at an execution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report of an execution begins: 'An account of the Behaviour and Execution of JAMES GLEN, who was Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 12th of December, 1827, for the inhuman Murder of his own son, by Drowning him in the Canal, near Port-Dundas.' It was published on 12th December 1827 by John Muir of Glasgow.
Several broadsides were produced covering Glen's case, which suggests the high level of public outrage and interest it provoked. The broadside author notes that this is the third recorded case of a father being executed for infanticide in Glasgow. Infanticide was a crime traditionally more associated with women, because of the social stigma of having an illegitimate child, but here the author explains that the church's abolition of compulsory public repentance for single mothers had reduced the number of women killing their children.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'The following is a correct account of all the PUBLIC EXECUTIONS which have taken place in Glasgow, for the last fifty-six years, with the year and the day of the month on which they suffered, which is a very affecting Calendar, and worthy of preservation.' The sheet was printed in 1820 by W. Carse, Printer, 127 Trongate, Glasgow.
This broadside is a rather dark inventory, naming all the individuals who have been executed in Glasgow between 1765 and 1820, plus a list of their crimes. Who might have been interested in buying such a sheet, one can only imagine. For the modern audience, however, this sheet tells us much about the philosophy of the legal system and the rule of law during this era. In particular, it illustrates that the protection of property was the main concern of the authorities, as evidenced by the large number of people who were executed for crimes such as housebreaking, theft, robbery and forgery.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Names of all the persons who have Suffered in Glasgow since the year 1765, with an account of their crimes, and the year and day of the month they were Executed, and exhibits a melancholy view of the final end of all who deviate from the paths of rectitude.' It was published by William Carse of Edinburgh, and probably would have cost one penny.
William Carse was one of three Glasgow printers, the others being John Muir and Thomas Duncan, who specialised in printing such material. They also produced the daily list of the Circuit Court with the names of those to be tried and sentenced on any given day. This composite list was partly intended to act as a warning to anyone tempted by crime. The phrase, 'Of all who deviate from the paths of rectitude', suggests that such a grisly end is inevitable for all those who commit an offence.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An excellent form of a PRAYER, said to have been aften used by the unfortunate James Gow, shoemaker, who was Executed yesterday, Friday the 2d of December 1831, for the Murder of his Wife, and whose Body was delivered to Dr. Munro for dissection, since his condemnation.'
Whilst James Gow headlines this broadside, the simultaneous execution of Robert Beveridge for a similar crime is also briefly cited. The main body of the broadside, however, contains Gow's repentful last words, said in the form of a prayer. The reader is also treated to Gow's final utterances 'on this earth', 'Lord have mercy on our souls; Lord, receive our souls'. Whether these were in fact Gow's last words is another matter. Last speeches were often reused by printers, with only the appropriate details, such as name and nature of crime, changed.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Execution of JOHN WILSON and DUNCAN FRASER, who were Executed at the Head of Libberton Wynd, Edinburgh, on Wednesday morning the 28th January, 1824, for Housebreaking and Theft ; with a particular Account of their Behaviour since their Condemnation and at the place of Execution.' This sheet was printed for Alexander Turnbull of Edinburgh and would have sold for a penny.
There are other reports held in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection which cover the court proceedings and lamentation of Wilson and Fraser, as well as further execution descriptions. This text follows a relatively standard format, covering the sentencing, the family distress and the convict's behaviour.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report of an execution begins: 'Particular account of the Execution and behaviour of a yonng man, named David Wylie, who suffered at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 12th November, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft, with his warning to the young to beware of numerous gangs of thieves who are at present committing crimes throughout the country, also his affectionate address on the scaffold.' Published in Glasgow, reprinted by J. Young of Edinburgh in 1823.
The quality of writing found in broadsides can vary quite considerably, but in this particular example there appear to be whole lines missing from the report. For example, in this printed version lines 39-41 read: 'At the / who counselled, instructed, and by every tie which links human / nature together, warned him of impending danger.' Clearly there are words missing beween lines 39 and 40 as they are printed here, and there are similar omissions elsewhere in the broadside. This may be down to a printer error in Glasgow, or it may have occurred when J. Young reprinted the report in Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Of the execution of Catherine Davidson, who was executed at Aberdeen on Friday last, for the murder of her husband, by pouring vitriol down his throat; with the confession which she made. With an account of a remarkable circumstance which happened about 40 years ago at the execution of a woman in Aberdeen, when the executioner threw the rope among the crowd, which struck her on the breast.' This story was sourced from the 'Caledonian Mercury' of Monday Oct. 11, 1830, and the broadside was published by John Muir.
This broadside narrates the tragic story of Catherine Davidson, executed for giving her husband vitriol (sulphuric acid) to drink. It recounts how Mrs. Davidson conducted herself in the condemned cell, and also records her last words of 'Oh, my God'. The broadsheet then concludes by informing its readers that this was the first public execution of a woman in Aberdeen for 45 years. The fact that the previous woman was executed (in 1784) for stealing linen cloth and women?s clothes, illustrates just how harsh and repressive the 'Criminal Code' (known as the 'Bloody Code' in England) was in Scotland, from about 1660 to 1850.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence, and Execution of DANIEL GRIMSHIRE, which took place at Reading, in Berkshire, on Thursday, 4th March 1824, for the Cruel and Inhuman Murder of his own child, by pouring Boiling Hot Water down its Throat'.
This rather grim report does not dwell on many of the most compelling aspects of the crime, but rather simply sets the scene and conveys the facts. The child's name, age or sex is never mentioned, perhaps reflecting nineteenth century attitudes towards children. It is unusual to find an incident of a man committing infanticide, although there are many reports held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, covering women and their stories. This report travelled from Berkshire, which suggests that it was shocking enough at the time to be recounted.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Life, Transactions, Confessions, and Behaviour of Margaret Davidson, who was Executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 8th October 1830, for the most atrocious and inhuman Murder of her Husband, by pouring Poison down his throat while asleep, and her body afterwards given for Dissection.' This sheet was published by Robertson and Co.
With a chilling, Bruegel-like illustration of a gallows underneath the Murder headline, this broadside tells the woeful story of Margaret Davidson, who was executed for poisoning her husband while he slept. After demonising the woman for her evil crime, there is a change in tone as Davidson's confession appears in the narrative. Forgiveness from God, redemption and a warning to others are the main themes in such confessions from the prisoner in 'the condemned cell'. The broadside concludes with the execution and the body being whisked away to a medical school for dissection. This sheet is part of a series of broadsides on this particular subject, with the others available for viewing in the National Library of Scotland.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Full, True and Particular Account of the Lives and Transactions of David Dobie and John Thomson, the Gilmerton Murderers, together with a very full and most correct account of their conduct and declarations in the Lock-up-house, on the night before the execution, and on their last moments on the scaffold, all extracted from the Courant Newspaper.' No publisher is named for this broadside, though the story has been sourced from the 'Courant' newspaper.
The Gilmerton Murder was a notoriously heinous crime, and a large number of broadsides by various printers were published on this chilling subject. This broadside is especially interesting in that it offers the reader a quick overview of the murderers? early lives, before describing the crime and concluding with their execution. The broadside's strong focus on the pair's early abandonment of religion perhaps reveals much about the Calvinist nature of Scottish society at this time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'AN ACCOUNT OF THE EXECUTIONS IN SCOTLAND FOR THE PAST 200 YEARS.' The reader is provided with an alphabetical listing of the places of execution within Scotland, under which the names of those executed, along with the nature their crimes, are placed chronologically. Also provided at the end is a separate listing for the crime of witchcraft and a brief insight into 'THE ENGLISH CRIMINAL CODE', including a few interesting statistics.
William Calcraft (1800-79) was the general executioner of Great Britain, and the first English hangman to conduct executions in Scotland following the death of John Murdoch. He worked in Scotland between the years 1852 and 1870. A brief biography of Calcraft is given at the beginning of this account. This broadside offers a fascinating insight into crime in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland. The names are many and include such notorious figures as William Burke, who was executed in Edinburgh on the 28th June, 1828, and Robert Edmond, who was responsible for the Haddington murders and was executed in Edinburgh on the 17th March, 1830.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A Gentleman's Letter TO THE LAIRD of BOGHALL, The Day before his Execution, With BOGHALL's ANSWER.' The letters are both dated the 5th January 1721.
Nicol Mushett (or Mushet), Laird of Boghall, was found guilty of murdering his wife, and until his execution was held at Edinburgh's Tolbooth. In the first letter Alexander Pennecuik asks that Boghall clear his name of any involvement in the murder. At the time of writing, Pennecuik was in prison under the suspicion of being an accessory to the murder. In his reply, Bogall denies ever having implicated Pennecuik in the crime. The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes at least two further broadsides regarding this case.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH / AND / CONFESSION / OF / Anne Fogget, Burnt for the Murder of her Husband Abraham Fogget / Who was Executed at York September 10 1716.' This sheet was published by Margaret Reid of Edinburgh.
Whilst many aspects of this document are historically noteworthy, two are worth mentioning. This sheet was published by a woman - Margaret Reid. She succeeded to her father's tools and trade upon his death and was a prolific chapbook producer. Also, the murder of a husband by his wife was considered 'petty treason' and women were burnt instead of hung for this to preserve their modesty. They were, however, normally strangled before the flames reached them.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.