Verse 1: 'Oh! John, what's this you've done, John, / You're head this morn's sair, / You're rigs ye've carried on, John, / The hale week of the Fair. / It's now you're in the horrors, John, / And in them you may be, / This day O cou'dna help ye, John, / Although ye were to dee.'
This ballad is structured as an exchange of recriminations between a husband and wife while both are suffering from hangovers earned at their local agricultural fair. The local fair is a significant symbol of community in Scottish literature, and fairs are often portrayed as bawdy, drunken, knockabout occasions where prevailing notions of morality and respectability are forgotten. Allan Ramsay (1684-1758), Robert Fergusson (1750-74) and Robert Burns (1759-96) all wrote fine poems about such occasions, some based on the great Scots ballad 'Christ's Kirk on the Green' which was attributed to King James V (b. 1512-1548) and frequently reprinted on broadsides.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1 begins: 'O John what's this ye've done John, / Yer head this morning's sair'. The woodcut above the title displays a well-dressed couple sitting in a parlour playing cards. Despite the rough nature of the illustration, the lady looks out of the scene to catch the reader's eye and engage them. This is a classic artist's trick.
This is the story of a couple who spent all their money and pawned most of their goods so that they could enjoy the Paisley fair to its full extent. Now the event is over, they are left quarrel about their decisions and behaviour but promise to start economising, but only until New Year! Both partners seem to have had romantic affairs during this period also, but they remain unconcerned about this as a couple.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.Verse 1: 'The moon was shedding lustre / O'er field and forest far, / And joyous love was streaming / Frae mony a happy star; / The merry burn was singing / wi' ne'er a thocht o' care, / As I gaed hame wi' Jessie / Frae the Fair.' The name 'TOBERMORY' is printed at the foot of the poem, but it is unclear whether this is the name of the author, or of the publisher, or of the place of publication. Beneath this, a pencil annotation has been added: '(A.M. Bisset, Bathgate)'. Again the significance of the name and place is not explained.
For centuries, the agricultural fair has been an important and symbolic event in Scottish society and in Scottish writing. Many poems and novels record the annual fair as an event where people from a country and town would mingle, where alcohol would flow freely, where people from a traditionally austere background could lose their inhibitions, and where romance or aggression could take root with equal ease. In this poem, the fair takes on a magical aura for the narrator as he remembers the romance with 'Jessie' that began there.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Her nainsel cam to the Lowland town to see the fair and thrang man, / Before she walk'd the city round, she got mony a squeeze and bang, man, / But she'll awa down by the auld brig, bear to the Broomi law, man, / The lads kick'd up the funniest rig, the like you never saw, man.' 'Nainsel' is a nickname for a Highlander, and means 'one's own self'. Unfortunately, no publication details are included on the sheet.
This broadside ballad tells of a young woman from the Highlands who visits Glasgow to attend a fair. The writer proceeds, in a light-hearted manner, to tell his audience about the various shows and acts that she views while walking round the fair. Unfortunately, however, one of the male performers relieves the apparently innocent and naïve country girl of her purse, only to suddenly find himself at the wrong end of a Highland dirk. After a brief tussle, the police arrive and throw the young woman into prison. Following the court case and subsequent fine, the writer concludes that this is probably the last time the woman will attend the Glasgow Fair.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This poem is introduced by a bit of text that reads: 'A FUNNY CONVERSATION Between Cuddy WILLIE, the Pigman, and HAWKIE, the Speech Crier, Twa Celebrated and Well-known Characters in Edinburgh, on occasion of the Last All-Hallow Fair, held in the Vicinity of Auld Reekie.'
The dialogue structure, as exemplified here, was quite common in Scots poetry in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, partly due to its popularity with the great eighteenth-century poets Robert Fergusson and Robert Burns. The dialogue form was derived from classical models, particularly the work of Plato. Whereas in the classics the form was the basis of a serious philosophical debate, in Scotland it was often used ironically, to satirise the opinions and pretensions of two comic characters. In this example 'Cuddy Willie' and 'Hawkie' start by discussing world affairs but end up in prison after a drunken brawl. The 'Hawkie' referred to is possibly the well-known Glasgow street character of the mid-19th century. Born William Cameron, near Stirling in 1790, he became famous in Glasgow as a writer and seller of 'last words' and chapbooks. He also plied his trade in Paisley and Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'When I was a 'prentice in Forfar, / I was a braw lad an' a stout; / My master was old Tailor Orquher, / That lived at the fit o' the Spout. / His wife's name was gleyed Gizzie Miller; /  And O! she was haughty and vain, / For the bodies had plenty o' siller; / Forbye a bit house o' their ain.' This ballad was published at the Poet's Box, Overgate, Dundee by William Shepherd.
'Forfar Fair' is narrated by Tam, an apprentice tailor, who goes to the fair and gets drunk and amorous with a local girl, Maggy Jack. The ballad ends with Tam in a dilemma: Tam has fallen in love with Maggy, while the master tailor expects Tam to marry his daughter. The community fair, usually climaxing in drunkenness, violence or both, is a conventional setting in Scottish ballad poetry. It was used by the likes of Allan Ramsay and Robert Burns and originated with the great Scots poems 'Peblis [Peebles] to the Play' (anon. c.1430-1450) and 'Christ's Kirk on the Green', which has been attributed to James V of Scotland (b. 1512-1542).
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.The first ballad begins: 'My friend and I struck frae Milngavie, / For Glasgow town we took our way.' 'Feeing time', usually twice a year in the spring and autumn, was when servants and farm hands were employed - normally at a feeing fair.
The second ballad begins: 'Yon Irish hereos of Hibernia's nation, / Give ear with patience to what I say'. This lamentation was written by William McNamara.
The first ballad is set in Glasgow and is a light-heart narrative, about finding love and a life-long partner on a holiday. The second song is much more serious and has a pro-Irish-Catholic political message. Although not immediately similar, these two ballads were perhaps printed together to appeal to Scotland's large immigrant-Irish population.Verse 1 begins: 'My friend and I struck frae Milgye, / From Glasgow town we took our way'. The directions under the title reveal that the accompanying tune should be 'Craigmaddy Muir'. This sheet was published by James Lindsay of 11 King Street, Glasgow. Lindsay is known to have worked from Glasgow between 1847 and 1910.
Broadsides were the cheap and ready entertainment of their day and as such could be purchased on the streets. They were mainly hawked by chapmen or patterers who would sing ballads or recite some of the headlines to attract attention. The information at the bottom of this sheet reveals a little more of the broadside process. James Lindsay printed and sold this sheet, which is actually two separate trades. It is also advertised that he kept 5,000 sheets in stock and that these could be supplied to other agents. Hiring fairs (also called feeing markets) where agricultural labourers and domestic servants were held in towns throughout Scotland well into the twentienth century.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'My friend and I struck frae Millgye, / For Glasgow town we took our way, / When all along the road was strung, with lads and bonnie lasses gay'. It was published by the Poet's Box, Dundee, and sold for a penny.
The feeing time was traditionally when farmhands and servants were employed. It happened twice a year, at the end of May and the end of November. If a person missed the feeing time, it could mean a long and difficult search for work. In this song, however, the two characters find love as a result.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Come all ye blooming country lads & listen unto me / And if I do but tell the truth, I know you will agree / It's of the jolly farmers, who servants want to have, / For to maintain them in their pride and be to them a slave.' There are no publication details given on this broadside.
'Country Hirings' was obviously a popular song. The National Library of Scotland holds at least two broadside versions of it. Ballads had long been sung among the peasant and working classes in Scotland, and political protest was a recurring thread in the genre. This song is highly critical of the increasing superior and exploitative attitude of farmers to their hired labourers. The rural labour pool became relatively greater in the nineteenth century as specialisation and mechanisation of farming meant that less workers were needed on many farms, leaving farmers with greater power.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Come all you blooming country lads and listen unto me, / And if I do but tell the truth I know you will agree; / It's of the jolly farmers who servants want to have, / For to maintain them in their pride and be to them a slave.' There are no publication details given on this broadside.
'Country Hirings' is highly critical of the changing attitudes it perceives farmers to have towards their hired staff. Traditional mixed farms were very dependent on labourers, who were taken on for six months at a time. It was common practice for the labourers, who often lived communally in bothies, to take meals with the farmer's family. In the nineteenth century, specialised farming, where farmers cultivated only one type of livestock, or one or two crops, meant that labourers were less in demand, and mechanised machinery increased this trend. As farmers could earn more and pay out less, the gulf in social status widened.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.Verse 1: 'Was never in Scotland heard or seen, / such dancing and deray; / Neither at Falkland on the green, / nor Peebles at the play, / As was of woers as I ween; / at Christs Kirk on a day: / For there came Kittie washen clean, / with her new Gown of Gray, / Full gay that day' The poem is attributed to James V (1512-42), but the printer's note under the title, 'Newly Corrected according to the Original Copy' indicates that this was one of the many reprints that were made of the poem in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, with the spelling updated to the standard forms of the period.
'Christ's Kirk on the Green' is one of the most popular and influential poems ever to have been produced in Scotland. Its description of a rural fair degenerating into a mass brawl struck a popular chord, and inspired works such as 'Leith Races' by Robert Fergusson and 'The Holy Fair' by Robert Burns. The distinctive 'Christ's Kirk' verse form and boisterous subject matter were derived from an anonymous fifteenth century Scots poem, 'Peblis [Peebles] to the Play', which is acknowledged in the opening verse of 'Christ's Kirk on the Green'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.