This report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARGARET KENNEDY, who was tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, at Glasgow, on Thursday last, the 1st of October 1818, and Condemned to be Executed there, on Wednesday the 4th of November next, for passing Forged Guinea Notes of the Stirling Banking Company, knowing them to be such.' The name of the publisher is not included, though it was printed in Edinburgh and cost one penny.
This broadside tells the tragic story of Margaret Kennedy, who was sentenced to death in 1818 for tendering counterfeit banknotes. The evidence against the poor woman was overwhelming, as a number of Glasgow shopkeepers appeared as witnesses to identify her as having purchased groceries in their shops with the forged notes. In mitigation, the defence pointed out that she was a young widow of no education who had become homeless following her husband?s death, and the jury recommended her to mercy. The judge, however, sentenced her to death.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This last speech begins: 'The Speech of John Curry, To be delivered on the Tron 10th Apr. 1728.' Written in verse form the speech begins: 'Altho' my Lug's nail'd, to the Tron, / Yet I am not Tongue tacked John ; / I'l speak, tho' all the Bank look on, / And call me Rogue ; / I have not been an idle dron, / But Clever dog.' A handwritten note under the title suggests that John Curry's 'lug' was nailed to the Tron for forging banknotes.
Unlikely to have been written by John Curry himself, this light-hearted and witty 'speech' has been cleverly constructed to give a clear impression of Curry's own self-importance: 'Surrounded, by my body Guards, / I'm far above, the rank of Lairds'. There are a number of other broadsides contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection that relate to the case of John Curry, including a last speech, and a dialogue between John Curry and Tonny Ashton, who were imprisoned together. Tony, or Tonny,  Aston or Ashton, was a strolling player who came to Edinburgh in the 1720s. He was promoted by the poet Allan Ramsay who wrote prologues for Aston?s performances as well as selling tickets for his plays. In 1726 Aston was denied a licence to perform by the Master of the Revels as he had failed to pay to the Revels office, the dues he owed them. Nevertheless he continued to perform until Skinner?s Hall (where he performed) was shut down. After a spell of litigation, Aston cut his losses and left Edinburgh in 1728. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, this crime report continues: 'Late residenter at the Spittal, in the County of Durham. Who was executed on Wednesday, 3d of September, 1800, at the West End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, for the crime of issuing forged Notes.' The sheet was originally published in 1800 by J. Morrison of East Campbell's Close in Edinburgh's Cowgate, and republished in Glasgow by J. Galbraith.
This crime broadside describes the tragic fate that befell Samuel Bell, after he was found guilty of forging banknotes. The writer focuses attention on the social dimension of Bell's tragedy, by considering the effects that his death will have on his pregnant wife and parents. It seems that Bell conducted himself with the utmost dignity during his period in the condemned cell. However, it also seems that Bell's model behaviour was related to his hope of having his sentence mitigated. Bell was attended to by the Rev. Dickson, who heard his confession and helped him in his prayer to God for mercy in the next world.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.The report begins: 'The Last Farewel and Lamentation Of Mrs. M'Leoid, who was Execute in the Grass-market of Edinburgh on the 8th of March 1727, for the Crime of Forgery, with her last Farewel to the World.' The name of the publisher is not included.
These broadside verses tell the tragic story of Mrs McLeod, who was executed in Edinburgh in 1727, for the crime of forgery. The first part of the ballad describes her early life, ending with the charge of forgery. In part two of the ballad, Mrs McLeod protests her innocence and warns that those who did her wrong will suffer come Judgement Day. While being sentenced to death for forgery might seem harsh to a modern audience, the severity of the 'Bloody Code' (known as the 'Criminal Code' in Scotland) meant that executions for such offences were commonplace.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'A full and particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of THOMAS URQUHART, and DAVID his son, who both received Sentence, to be hanged at Edinburgh, the 18th of October, 1797.'
Thomas and his son David, who was thought to be about 16, were charged with stealing, falsehood and forgery. Over a period of three years they had been stealing the notes and gold contained in the mail, which Thomas supervised. Thomas denied the accusations but David pled guilty. Despite this both men, after examination, were found guilty and sentenced to hang. This may seem severe, but the law in Scotland at this time placed more emphasis on protecting property than anything else. It is not known if the sentence was carried out.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A true account of the Behaviour and Execution of JOHN M'CANNA and JOSEPH RICHARDSON, a farmer, who were hanged at Dumfries on Wednesday the 14th of May, 1823, for uttering Forged Notes on the Ship Bank of Glasgow. Also, an affecting account of their last interview with their Parents, Wives, and Children, the night before their execution.' It was printed by John Muir of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
Although Joseph Richardson's brother, William, was also convicted for the same crime, he was granted a reprieve following a petition 'sent up to the fountain of mercy in favour of these unhappy men'. John M'Canna (also spelt McKana or McKena) and Joseph, however, were granted no such reprieve. It is said that the Richardson brothers were from a respectable family and, prior to their unfortunate meeting with McCanna, were beyond reproach. McCanna was a 39 year old Irish emigrant. He married a Lockerbie woman and worked as a roadman. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes at least one other broadside detailing the execution of the two men.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.