This broadside story begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of a most wonderful and Astonishing Catastrophe that took place a few evenings, in a gentleman's house, in Fettes Row, ner Stockbridge, Edinburgh, when a Black Quadruped of the feline species absolutely swallowed a paper, containing many popular and learned Essays and dissertations on various subjects, too numerous to insert in out small limits . . . . but which must be interesting to all out readers.' 'Pock means' 'bag'. A note below the introduction states that this story was 'Extracted from the New North Briton', which was a weekly newspaper.
This broadside tells the light-hearted story of a cat that developed a talent for eating paper, thus interrupting the reading habits of its owner. In short, this story is the feline equivalent of the proverbial 'shaggy dog's tale'. However, given that this cat particularly enjoys eating reports from the King's court concerning his majesty's health and a speech from the General Assembly, it could be argued that this amusing story contains a cunningly subversive element of irreverence towards the Establishment.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical notice continues: 'THE following Rules and Regulations have been drawn up for the purpose of putting down all forms of sin and vice:- / 1. No one to be out after dark'. The Royal coat-of-arms has been included at the top of the page and the whole piece is contained within border.
Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour. This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: '[OLD TOWN ZOOLOLOG]ICAL / GRAND Zoological Entertainment IN THE ROYAL CIVIC ARENA, ROYAL EXCHANGE, EDINBURGH, On TUESDAY FIRST, the 29th instant, Will be performed here for the First time, on a Grand Scale, the new and interesting DRAMA of THE WILD BEASTS ATTACKING THEIR KEEPER.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
On the surface this fable-like tale appears to detail the power struggle between a group of wild beasts and their keeper, whilst, at the same time, charting the events which eventually lead to a revolt by the 'whole Menagerie'. In reality, it offers a commentary on the legal and political wrangles that were taking place in Edinburgh and the rest of the country at this time -  most probably the mid-nineteenth century. Whilst the subject matter may appear a little inaccessible to a modern-day audience, contemporary readers would have had no problem identifying the different 'animals' and their 'keeper'. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection also includes details of a 'second attack'. The Royal Edinburgh Zoological Gardens first opened in 1839, but closed in 1857 after running into difficulties.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A NEW APPROVED ACT OF PARLIAMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF Young Men, Old Men, Maids, Wives, Widows, Old Maids, Bachelors, &c.' It was printed by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh, and includes an illustration of four well-attired individuals.
What follows is a humorous list of resolutions that were seemingly passed by an Act of Parliament, including one which states that 'every bachelor, at the age of forty, be compelled to keep two wives, to make up for lost time'. Another declares that 'no married woman shall lie snoring in her bed after seven o'clock in the morning'. The list of thirteen resolutions are all of a similar nature to the two mentioned here, and would have proved highly amusing to the readership of the day.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'This is to acquaint the PUBLIC, That lately arrived in this Town from Beverley, The very celebrated Dr. Puff Stuff Sham Quirko Ye-Trick'. Unfortunately, but not unusually, the names of the author and publisher of this piece have not been included, nor has any date.
This light-hearted broadside tells the incredulous tale of Dr Puff Stuff from Beverley, who, according to this account, arrived in Europe with a veritable treasure trove of miracle cures. These included a potion enabling the growth of a set of new teeth and an ointment for the regeneration of entire limbs. Whilst many broadsides carried news of important events and provided factual accounts, this sheet is a good example of the role broadsides played in entertaining the public. Whilst most people would have taken the story of the doctor with a pinch of salt, at a time when there was a plethora of charlatans claiming miracle cures, there would have been a few readers who believed the strange tale of Dr Puff Stuff.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation begins: 'SOme Boutcher's Wives got in a fine Soup. / Wi turning of the Chapen Stoup, / Clashing wi Drunken Bessie Shaw, / The fouest Coarse among thnm a'. The sheet is undated and there are no publication details given.
This broadside lampoons the butchers' wives of Mussleburgh, who were apparently very upset because of a new law which meant that meat was to be bought by weight, making it easier for the customer to cheat. Previously it is to be assumed that it was sold according to the type of cut. The women are portrayed as a drunken lot, and the main thing they are worried about is that the new law is losing them drinking money!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'Neighbours draw near and I'll tell you a tale, / To lend your attention I'm sure you won't fail, / Concerning a couple that lived near Armagh, / Their grand conversation would make a horse laugh.' It was published by James Lindsay of 9 King Street, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
This humorous song deals with the subject of drinking tea. It is sent out as a warning to all husbands, advising them not to interfere with the tea-drinking habits of their wives. If they refuse to take heed of this warning, the song lays testament to what can happen. In another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection, entitled 'A Lecture to the Ladies by a Disobliged Admirer of the Fair Sex', it is suggested that contemporary women have replaced the 'forbidden apple' with the habit of drinking tea.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This satirical notice begins: 'We understand that it is contemplated by "The Maid Servants Union Society" of this city, to make a "strike" at the ensuing term, with a view of obtaining higher wages'. This sheet was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh. There are two woodcuts of ugly and menacing caricatured women servants, included above the title. Along the top of the sheet, someone has hand-written '9th March 1840'.
There was a trend during the mid-nineteenth century for workers trying to better their conditions, the servants' strand of which was reflected in literature of the time. The author of this text is attempting to make fun of maid servants' aspirations to better wages and standards of living, and their attempts to gain respect for both themselves and their careers. This is done mainly by drawing attention to the perks of the job and the stereotypes associated with female servants.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This story begins: 'Or, A New Way of Raising the Wind. / This story with many others was first introduced and made popular by the late James Livingstone, the best comic Singer and Scotch Story-Teller.' This sheet was published by James Kay of Glasgow. The sheet is one of a series as indicated by the number in the bottom right corner, although this sheet could have been purchased for a penny.
Habbie Simpson was the piper of Kilbarchan, a village west of Paisley, during the late sixteenth century. Robert Sempill of Beltrees, Renfrewshire (c.1595-1659), wrote an eulogy of him, copies of which are also contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This reveals that Simpson was brave, good at football, a bit of a gossip and renowned for his humorous behaviour! It also clearly states Simpson's reputation as a piper, which is now celebrated by a statue in the town centre.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This comic broadside begins: 'Chuse where and what you will, here are some things new to suit and to please Old and Young, Deaf and Dumb, Mad, Lame and Lazy, Young Men who walk in their Sleep, Old Maids who have no Teeth, and Dairy Maids, Cheats and Dandies, containing the Humours of the Age, being Whimsical, witty and Diverting!' A note at the foot of the page reads: 'EDINBURGH:- Reprinted by Menzies, Lawnmarket', which suggests that this broadside was originally published in another city or town.
This broadside is a precursor to today's joke books. The 'humours of the age' contained on the broadside tend to be one-liners rather than shaggy-dog stories. The little piece of doggerel verse that ends the sheet is a relic of an earlier age of public performance, when playwrights and poets sometimes ended their works with a final verse thanking the audience for its attention and craving that its appreciation be shown in donations of gold and silver. The presence of the verse here suggests that the broadside might have been a transcription of one contemporary entertainer's performance.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A GRAND SMOKING CONCERT WILL BE HELD IN Janefield Cemetry, On Sunday=Monday Evening, Suctober Forty-Tooth. Dugald M'Google, B.A., M.U.D in the Chair.' It was published by L. Macartney at the Poet's Box, Dundee.
This is a mock-advertisement printed on a broadside for comic purposes. Wordplay is the key to the humour. A common phrase, such as 'turn', referring to a performance or an act, is made into 'stomach-turn' and takes on a whole new meaning. The fictional performers are given comic-sounding rhyming names such as 'Runco M'Bunko' and 'Dugald M'Google'. The date is given as the 'Forty-Tooth'. This broadside shows that British absurdist humour, normally associated with the late twentieth century and comic acts such as the Goons and Monty Python's Flying Circus, had actually existed for far longer.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This story begins: 'There was ance held a gran' meetin' o' Scottish sangs. The date thereof was sometime before or after the year "Auchty Nine;" the place canna be fixed wi' the same exactness, but it was probably near "The Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon," in honour o' the "Lad that was born in Kyle."' The story is mysteriously signed with the initials of the author, 'W.S.'
This light-hearted story is cleverly constructed around the titles of well-known Scottish folk songs. The writer personifies the songs, and brings them together for a grand meeting or 'symposium'. Although it is obviously easier to do this when the title itself is a person's name, the writer cleverly tailors the more awkward titles to fit in with the narrative. The ending to the story is rather surreal, with all the song titles singing 'Auld Lang Syne' - who is also an attendee at this most bizarre of gatherings!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This story begins: 'An account of the curious Trial of STEENY SLY before the Jury Court at Stirling, on Wednesday last, for stealing a kiss from Miss PEGGY PRUDENCE, as she was looking out of her window in the 2nd story of her house in the town of St. Ninian's, while he was passing by as a passenger on the top of the Royal Perth Mail Coach. With the curious evidence of the other passengers and guard, who were examined as witnesses.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow. A note underneath the introduction states that the story was sourced from 'The Glasgow Courier' of Saturday, 10th of May, 1823.
As suggested by the fictional names of the protagonists, this story was written to entertain its audience, although it could be that the writer also wanted to impart a moral message, too. The issue that lies at the centre of the controversial court case that resulted from this stolen kiss, is to determine just how much a kiss is worth, then to award damages accordingly. To answer this fascinating question, the lawyers call a number of impressive witnesses, including a political economist. After twelve hours of careful deliberation, the jury decided to accept the defendant's argument, who stated that he had not stolen the kiss, but had merely borrowed it, and would soon be returning it to its rightful owner.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The 'Stump Speech' begins: 'FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS, - Unaccustomed as I um to public speaking, allow me to say that when a man stands before a number of his fellow men to speak, he assumes a liberty'. This is clearly a parody of the traditional stump speech. Stump speech is another name for a campaign speech, usually political, which covers a large number of non-specific points. It is so called because those delivering the speech would traditionally use a tree stump as a raised platform.
The 'Cure for a Cripple' begins: 'IT happened on a Sunday evening, about thirty years ago, that two sheep-stealers had meditated an attempt on the flock of a wealthy farmer in the parish of A___ in the west neuk of Fife.' A note under both titles reveals that this broadside was available from the Poet's Box. Unfortunately, no further publication details are provided.
During the nineteenth century, the Poet's Box appeared in a number of Scotland's towns and cities, including Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee and Paisley and also Belfast. Although they carried the same name, there is some doubt over whether they were connected in any way. Primarily publishers and distributors, they not only printed the standard range of broadsides, but also accepted commissions and offered a cheap publishing service to impecunious writers. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a large number of broadsides published by the Poet's Box.This amusing broadside is in fact a parody of a surgeon's bill, as illustrated by the ridiculous services that the doctor has performed on his - hopefully - fictitious patient. Although the broadside is not dated, the bill itself was apparently written on the 30th of May, 1830. A note at the foot of the sheet states it was published by W. Sanderson, whose premises were located in Edinburgh.
Clearly, the playful content that makes up this broadside was written solely to entertain its audience. The sheet starts off with a light-hearted satire on a doctor's bill - although the prices might not be satirical, since it totals just under £50 (about £2600 in today's terms). Following this bright opening, the writer amuses us further with a list of items that will be available for purchase at an auction. Madly, however, if any readers should wish to buy such chimeric products as a glass wheel barrow or a mahogany poker, then they must make their enquiries to the auctioneer, William Neversell, two days after the sale has finished!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account of that most important and final decision regarding the notorious Dyke on the Banks of the Clyde, which was finally decided by the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords, on Tuesday last.-- Glasgow, 10th July, 1828.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Princes Street, Glasgow.
This broadside is concerned with legally identifying the rights of way for a footpath that ran alongside the River Clyde. Rather than being settled locally, however, the court case to determine this issue ended up being decided in the House of Lords. The House of Lords eventually ruled in favour of the people's walking rights, hence the shouts of 'HUZZA!' at the end of the sheet.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside parody begins: 'At a meeting of several Ladies and Gentlemen of this Town, held ior for the better Management and conducting Order and Regularity in Society, Mr STEADY in the Chair, the following Resolutions were passed . . .' Although no date of publication is included, the sheet was printed by John Sanderson of Edinburgh. There is a similar broadside entitled, 'New Intended Act of Parliament', that is also included in this collection.
As illustrated by the satirical nature of the woodcut, this amusing broadside is actually a parody of legislation passed by the government. This people's act contains 13 new laws, with each one being the sort of law that would make an audience laugh. For instance, law number five states that no old maid, wife or widow woman should take more than one pound on snuff in a week. Then to balance out the gender divide, law number eight states that if a husband comes home drunk, then the wife is entitled to pick his pockets while putting him to bed. Given the impertinent tone of these laws, it could be argued that this sheet is quite subversive towards Parliament.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'IV W.R. The New intended Act of Parliament, For the Benefit of Young Men, Old Men, Wives, Old Maids, Batchelors, Widows, &c.' Included at the top of the sheet is a coat of arms with the motto of the Order of the Thistle, 'nemo me impune Lacessit' or 'no one provokes me with impunity'. The reference to William IV dates this broadside to between 1830 and 1837.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes several other sheets detailing this 'new intended Act of Parliament'. Whilst the coat of arms gives the list of resolutions an air of formality, upon closer inspection the humour becomes apparent. The resolutions are in fact light-hearted nonsense that would have proved entertaining reading to the audience of the day.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, this satirical report continues: 'For the benefit of Young Men, Old Men, Wives, Old Maids, Batchelors, Widows, &c. AT a meeting of several Ladies and Gentleman of this Town, held for the better management and conducting of order and regularity of Society, Mr Steady in the chair, the following Resolutions were passed . . . ' As illustrated by the reference to King William IV in the title, this sheet was published some time between 1830 and 1837.
Although written in the verbose style of parliamentary legislation, this light-hearted broadside is in fact a parody of the acts passed by the government. This people's bill proposes fifteen new acts to be passed, with each one being the sort of act that would add to the general gaiety of the nation. For instance, act number four proposes that working men should be allowed to smoke when making their way home, while number nine states that, for fire reasons, it should be illegal for two people living in the same house to get drunk at the same time. Given the irreverent tone of this sheet, it could be argued that it is quite subversive towards the Houses of Parliament.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical notice continues: 'About the 33rd of Next Month, / A TALL=COMPLEXIONED / Young Man / Five Feet Six Inches of Age, and / Height 27 Years'. It was published by L. MacArtney of the Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.
Here young scholars and poets could have their work published quickly and cheaply, but also often anonymously, as with this example. This text, however, perhaps contradicts the idea that surreal and slapstick humour only became popular after World War II.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside letter begins: 'Letter from a Friend on a Journey to the North, to an inhabitant of Auld Reekie; being a CURIOUS and ENTERTAINING MEDLY OF SCOTCH SONGS.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that this letter was written or published on the 1st of May, 1822. The letter is signed with the initials, 'W.W.'. 'Auld Reekie' is an old nickname for Edinburgh.
This rather strange letter claims to be a descriptive account of a man's journey in the north of Scotland - most likely the Highlands. After politely telling the recipient of the letter, 'Geordie', how much he missed his friend's company during the journey, the writer then proceeds to describe his journey and the people that he met during it. It appears likely, however, that this letter is a work of humorous fiction, since much of it is composed of the titles to well-known Scottish folk songs. Thus, the letter reads much like a listing of folk songs, with the exception that the titles to these songs have been woven into a narrative. Clearly, this letter was written to entertain its audience and to flaunt the letter-writer's skill in constructing a narrative.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This advertisement begins: 'LORD NICHOLSON, FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY, WILL HOLD A COURT In the Music Hall, George Street, ON WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4, 1848.' The text at the foot of the page reads: 'Doors open at 8 - The Court will sit at Half-past 8 o'clock. Admission - Body of the Hall, 3s.; Sides and Under the Gallery, 2s; Gallery, 1s.' The broadside was published by James Brydone of 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.
This would appear to be an advertisement for an evening of entertainment hosted by 'Lord Nicholson'. The main text of the broadside is a piece attributed to the 'Liverpool Chronicle', comparing Nicholson to Lord Brougham (1778-1868), the Edinburgh lawyer, founder of the 'Edinburgh Review' and reforming Whig politician. The comparison appears to be ironic, gently satirising Brougham while exaggerating Nicholson's qualities. Nicholson is less famous, but he seems to have been the Chief Baron of the Judge and Jury Society, and editor of the 'Illustrated London Life Weekly', who was also known for holding social gatherings.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lecture begins: 'SATAN, to ruin Mankind in the Root, / The universal Queen, betray'd with Fruit; / A single Apple forfeits Adam's Crown; / The Curse of GOD went with the Apple down.' A handwritten note under the title reads: 'said to be Pennicook Aug. 1726'.
The handwritten note is most likely referring to the Scottish writer, Alexander Pennecuik (d. 1730), who is not to be confused with his uncle, Dr Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722). Dr Pennicuik was also known for his verse and, in particular, his wit. This poem deals in a light-hearted way with the outmoded belief that all women are somehow tainted by the misdeeds of Eve. It is suggested that contemporary women have substituted the 'forbidden apple' with the demon drink, in this case tea! What then follows is a list of perceived evils attributed to the drinking of tea. Although playful in tone, this poem inadvertently highlights the negative and highly prejudicial attitudes towards women in eighteenth-century society.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This mock will begins: 'I Evan Morgan, being very sick, and Weak, but in perfect Health, do make this my last will & Testament, and do bequeath my Estate in manner and Form following.'
This broadside was definitely not written by a Welshman, for it is very derogatory. Written in the person of 'Evan Morgan', a typically Welsh name, the will is a catalogue of humourous incongruities and impossibilities. For example, he bequeaths Thom 'Two woolen Eel-skins', and 'Two pair of Wooden Scizzars', and the will was apparently witnessed by 'twenty Goates'. It is unusual to see the Welsh parodied in this way, as most commonly in broadsides this type of humour is directed against the Irish.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'For the BENEFIT of Mr. MUNRO senior, (Master of all the MUSIC in Scotland.) At Major WEIR'S House, near the Head of the West-Bow, (commodiously fitted for that Purpose.) On WEDNESDAY the 1st of APRIL next, will be A SPIRITUAL CONCERT CALLED Harmony Revers'd ; or, The World turn'd upside down.'
At first glance, this broadside appears to carry an advertisement for a recital at Major Weir's House in Edinburgh's West Bow. Upon closer inspection, however, it soon becomes clear that this notice is in fact parodying such advertisements. The normally impressive names of classical musicians and the wonderful titles given to their music are made a mockery of here: 'And a SONG by Signiora SHRIL-PIPE called the IRISH HOUL'. By indirectly poking fun at the inherent snobbery often found in such circles, the author of this advertisement has produced a highly amusing work.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'D ---- d Brazen Face, how could you hope / To imitate Horatian Strain, / A Labour too refin'd for Pope, / A task which puzzel'd Prior's Pen. / Brains blown to Foam, or sunk in Mud, / Make Works too airy, or too dull, / Then all thy Medley Lines, conclude / Have flowed from a confused Skull.'
Allan Ramsay (1686-1758), poet, song-collector and Edinburgh wig-maker, is today recognised (with Robert Fergusson and Robert Burns) as one of the great vernacular Scots poets of the eighteenth century, and as a vital figure in the revival of Scots poetry after the Reformation of 1560. Even in his lifetime Ramsay was an acclaimed and successful writer, yet this poem attacks him for his intention to translate Horace. Translation of classical poetry was, in fact, a common task undertaken by eighteenth-century poets, and the influences of Horace and Virgil are clear in much of Ramsay's poetry.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'OLD TOWN ZOOLOGICAL / SECOND ATTACK OF THE Wild Beasts upon their Keeper IN THE ROYAL CIVIC ARENA, ROYAL EXCHANGE, EDINBURGH: Showing how the Animals Fought and how their Keeper Defended himself.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection also includes the broadside which preceded this one. It details the initial attack on the keeper by the horde of wild beasts. Whilst both appear to recount a rather strange zoological encounter, in reality they offer an insight into the political posturing that was going on in Edinburgh, and the rest of the country, at this time - most probably the mid-nineteenth century. The Royal Edinburgh Zoological Gardens opened in 1839 and closed in 1857 after running into difficulties. Interestingly, it appears that someone has attempted to identify the various 'animals' mentioned in this account; a handwritten list of names is visible near the top of the sheet alongside numbers linking them to the text.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political notice begins: 'TAKE of the several simples of natural parts, two grains of each; of the compound of learning, three scruples; the corpus juris, half a pound'. There are no further details attached to this publication.
This sheet, in quite a short and concise way, addresses many major political and economic issues which dominated Scottish society during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. It is difficult to know whether the author is pro-Scottish, anti-independence and pro-unionist, or even pro-monarchist. Jacobites, Newcastle coal, the variations in Scottish and English measures and the justice system are all touched upon in this intriguing narrative. The note the author ends on, however, would suggest that he is a member of one of the reforming movements, as all his points seem to be a criticism of the aristocracy.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This broadside begins: 'W.R. A PROPOSED NEW ACT OF PARLIAMENT, FOR THE BENEFIT OF Young Men, Old Men, Wives, Old Maids, Batchelors, Widows, &c.' Included at the top of the sheet is a coat of arms with the motto 'DIEU ET MON DROIT' or 'God and my right'. W.R. possibly refers to King William IV, which would date the broadside to between 1830 and 1837. It was published by John Elder of Edinburgh, and sold for one penny.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes several other sheets detailing this humorous new Act of Parliament. Written in the style of a formal proposal, each resolution passed at the 'meeting' offers a farcical suggestion. It appears to have been an extremely popular 'Act' amongst the public, as there are many examples, printed by a variety of broadside publishers, still in existence today.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'UNTO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE The Lords of Council and Session, THE PETITION OF THE CLERKS and APPRENTICES of Writers to the Signet, and Writers in Edinburgh'. The petition begins: 'Humbly Sheweth, That your Petitioners, with much regret, Take up your Lordships' time their ills to state'. It was published by W. Smith of 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh, and includes a woodcut illustration.
The Writers to the Signet, are an organization of solicitors that originated from the 15th-century Keepers of the King's Seal, or signet. Although no publication date has been provided on this broadside, it is known that William Smith was resident at 3 Bristo Port between the years 1824 and 1829. It seems likely, therefore, that this sheet was published around that time. Smith's first publication, of which he was also the author, appeared in 1822 and was entitled 'First lessons in teaching a child to read and spell English'. He went on to produce a large number of humorous and instructional broadsides and chapbooks, some of which are also contained in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical story begins: 'An Accouut of a Most DESPERATE BATTLE, which took place on the 13th of April, 1824, between the clans of two Chieftains, between Auchterarder and Fosswell, the Battle was for a long while doubtfull, till the two generals encountered each other'. This story was sourced from the 'Edinburgh Weekly Chronicle' on Wednesday 5th May, 1824.
This broadside relates to the feud between two landowners, one of whom wants to continue his road onto the other's land. The text, however, does not name the landowners or the area where this feud occurred. Instead the author makes fun of the landowners' endeavours - calling them generals and their staff 'an army'. Battle and strategy terminology are also used while references are made to Scotland's, then defunct, social system of clanship.
Road building in Scotland became increasingly important during the nineteenth century. This often caused problems between landowners who were not always in accordance with one another. This situation was exacerbated as many of the Jacobite attained lands were returned to their original holders during the 1820s, 30s and 40s.This broadside begins: 'CONTENTS OF TWO DRAWERS OF A SIDEBOARD, In a certain Hotel, North of John o' Groat's. / 'If there's a hole in a' your coats, / I rede you tent it : / A chield's amang you takin notes, / And, faith! He'll prent it.' The name of the author is, appropriately, 'A TRAVELLER', and it appears to have been written in an Orkney hotel on the 6th June 1828.
A handwritten note at the bottom of the sheet reads: 'by George Webster / Merchant / Darlington'. Whether this is the actual name of the author is unclear. This light-hearted ditty would have appealed to a large number of broadside readers. Easy to memorise and recite, this type of humorous verse was often used to entertain those gathered in the inns and taverns of the day.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the prologue continues: 'From the Bell of the High Kirk of Paisley, to its friend the Cross Steeple of Glasgow, giving her an account of her being struck with the Dumb Palsy, and the curious remedy which the Bell-doctors took to restore her to health and sound.' The letter is dated the 12th of October, 1821, and, rather bizarrely, is signed by the steeple bell of Paisley High Kirk. The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
This surreal story, allegedly written by a steeple bell in Paisley, is addressed to one of its friends, a steeple in Glasgow. Clearly, this light-hearted broadside is not intended to be taken seriously, and the author was merely trying to amuse his audience with a playful fancy. Written in a colloquial Scots dialect, the steeple bell is suffering from Bells Palsy (or 'dumb palsy' - a type of facial paralysis) and, in an effort to cure the bell of this affliction, the minister called a doctor to give the bell a medical check-up. In short, this whole story is structured around the punning possibilities of the term, Bell's Palsy.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This mock crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial & Sentence of JOHN COUNTERFEIT, who was sentenced to be Pilloried at the Cross of Edinburgh, on Wednesday, 14th March, 1821, for Willful Imposition, &c.' It was published by William Cameron, probably in Edinburgh, and priced at one penny.
William Cameron, known as 'Hawkie', (c.1790-1851) was a well-known speech crier who published broadsides in Glasgow, Edinburgh and Paisley in the first half of the nineteenth century. The broadside shown here is one of several mock crime reports, apparently composed by Cameron, which feature a diarist named 'Janet Clinker'. Others also feature 'Humphrey Clinker', a character Cameron seems to have borrowed from the eighteenth century Scottish novelist Tobias Smollett (1721-71). Like Smollett, Cameron gives his characters typifying names, such as 'Lord Justice Reason' or 'Mr Common Sense', which alert the reader to the fact that these are pieces of fictional writing, intended for comic or satirical purposes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, this broadside report continues: 'From his place of confinement on Monday last, and who so agitated the minds of the people, by his ferocious conduct, that a vigorous pursuit was made after him, and in a few hours he was apprehended, and safely lodged in durance vile.' The sheet was published by Forbes & Co. of the Cowgate, Edinburgh. Although no date of publication is printed on the sheet, a hand-written note suggests it was published on, or around, the 18th of June, 1834.
Although the sensational headline to this broadside suggests that the story is about Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847), it is in fact about an escaped circus lion which shared the same name as the famous Irish agitator. The writer proceeds to describe the humorous antics that took place during the capturing of this lion, before the keepers succeeded in returning it to its cage. The tone of this story is very much that of a 'shaggy dog's tale' - or rather a 'shaggy lion's tale. After finishing the lion story, the writer mundanely concludes the broadside with a quick round-up of recent court cases.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical broadside, a hybrid between verse and dialogue, begins: 'As Jerry Whig went out one day / He met his friend Tom Tory: / Now Jerry was a Scotsman bred, / And Tom was England's glory.' This sheet was published by Menzies of 30 Bank Street, Edinburgh.
This broadside would have been highly topical in its day and is written in the form of an argument. Tom is a cynical and snobbish Tory, who believes the Catholic Irish have gained much in recent years, such as emancipation and reform, and thus should complain no more. Jerry is a liberal Whig, who supports the Irish rebel and politician Daniel O'Connell and his calls for repeal of the Corn Laws, which were forcing poor Irish and British off their land as they could not pay the taxes. Tom and Jerry became common names for Whigs and Torys after characters in Pierce Egan's (1772-1849), 'Life in London; or the Day and Night Scenes of Jerry Hawthorn Esq. and Corinthian Tom' (c.1820). The mention of a meeting in London on February 4th suggests this broadside was published in 1839, when O'Connell attended the General Convention of the London Working Men's Association. The Corn Laws were eventually repealed in 1846, just as the Irish famine began.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.