This broadside story begins: ' An Account of the Wonderful Monkey of Glasgow, Who turned Barber, to Shave the Irish Farmers who came over to reap the Harvest, with a description of the Ludicrous Catastrophe attending his first experiment in that Profession.' Although the name of the publisher is not included and the sheet is not dated, it was printed in Edinburgh and cost one penny.
This light-hearted story pokes fun at Irish visitors to Scotland, playing on the old myth that the Irish are rather slow on the uptake. The ballad tells the amusing and fantastical story of how an Irish farmer was cut to shreds by a monkey while visiting a barber's shop for a shave. It seems that the Irishman was too stupid to realise that he was being shaved by a monkey - cue ensuing confusion and chaos all round. Continuing the theme of stereotyping according to nationality, this 'shaggy monkey's tale' ends with the injured Irishman meeting another Irishman, and agreeing to go for a whisky with him to drown his sorrows.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public advertisement begins: 'An Account of the Procession, and progress of Dan, King of Beggars, in Edinburgh.' This account was sourced from the 'Age' and was published by James Bonnar and Co.
This broadside seems to describe the events surrounding a visit to Edinburgh by Daniel O'Connell, probably in 1835 (also known as the Liberator) who had achieved Catholic Emancipation in 1829. This allowed Catholics to sit in the Westminster Parliament. O'Connell's next campaign was to press for Home Rule for Ireland. The tone of this broadside is deeply disrespectful to Catholics and Irish people, perhaps reflecting the popular mood in Edinburgh at the time. There are references to pigs, potatoes, Popery, the rack wheel and the Gilmerton carters - who had been executed in 1830 for a particularly vicious rape and murder.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'The particular account of old Mother Clifton's door, that was locked by the roasted rib of a chew of tobacco, and burst open by a gale of wind from a sow gelder's horn, and blew the old woman seven hundred and [s]eventy-seven miles beyond the moon.' It was published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh, and probably sold for one penny.
This ballad offers the reader a journey through the ridiculous. Peppered with paradoxical and fantastical events, this tale would have provided entertainment for the broadside-reading public. Although light-hearted, it actually plays on people's negative attitudes towards the Irish by highlighting the stereotypical notion of Irish logic as topsy-turvy. The arrival of the Irish in Scotland during the years of industrialisation was met with some resistance. Many people, in their ignorance, were highly suspicious and afraid of these newcomers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A CURIOUS AND DIVERTING DIALOGUE, That took place betwixt two Irishmen in the Cowgate, last night, about the Dinner to be given to EARL GREY on Monday first.' The Publisher was John Neil. The date and place of publication are not supplied.
Although this broadside is not dated, its contents suggest that it was published shortly after the passing of the Parliamentary Reform Act in 1832. Earl Grey (1764-1845) was the Prime Minister responsible for the Act, which extended the right to vote to one in seven adult males. This imagined dialogue depicts two Irishmen confusing the Reform issue with another significant political movement of the time, the campaign for Irish Home Rule, and ends up with them comparing Grey unfavourably with Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847), the Home Rule campaigner. The broadside is intended as an anti-Irish satire.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.