This broadside begins: 'THE LAST WORDS OF JOHN KNOX / Who was Shot in the North-Inch of PERTH the 24th of AUGUST 1716, about 7 in the morning.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
Apparently no relation to the famous Scottish Protestant reformer, John Knox (1505?-72), this particular John Knox nevertheless chooses to take the religious and moralistic high ground in his dying speech. Rather than being a supporter of the Protestant faith, however, his allegiance to the Church of Rome is clear through his support for the 'only Rightful Soveraign [sic] K. JAMES the VIII', otherwise known as James Edward Stuart or the 'Old Pretender'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH AND CONFESSION / OF / Thomas Bean, one of those Executed for the late Riot in Salisbury Court at London.' This sheet was originally printed in London and went on to be reprinted in Edinburgh.
Broadsides were often used to challenge political beliefs. Expressing an unpopular or contrary opinion in this format was not only safe, as they were largely anonymous, but they also reached a wide and varied audience, cheaply and quickly. This story's appeal lies in its immediacy and gravity. As a result very little factual information has been included - the reader already having topical knowledge, supposedly - and so it does now become quite a frustrating source to use. From other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection, it can be assumed that Bean was involved in a riot in favour of the Old Pretender, James Edward Stuart in May 1716.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A True COPY of the Paper delivered to the Sheriff, by Captain JOHN BRUCE, who was Execute at Lancaster the 2d of October, 1716.' Unfortunately, there are no publication details included on this sheet.
In many cases, broadside producers published fictitious last speeches that were high on repentence and moral instruction. Not only did they sell well, but many broadside publishers felt an obligation to the moral well-being of their readership. The paper delivered by Captain John Bruce before his execution, however, does ring true. Executed in Lancaster, England, for his undying allegiance to James III (the Old Pretender), Bruce reaffirmed his loyalty to James and declared that he was 'not ashamed for that Cause for which I die'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.