Following on from the title, this crime report continues: 'Who were Executed at the West End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 21st of January, 1807, for the Crime of Horse Stealing; contained in Two Letters from them to their Wives, written by their own hands.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published by 'Angus, Printer'.
Although the headline claims that these letters were written by the two condemned men, Thomas Smith and George Stephenson, there is no factual evidence to support this claim. Both men were sentenced to death for stealing two horses from the farm of Rev. James Maitland Robertson, the Minister of Livingston, and one horse from William Glendinning of Livingston Mill. When the ultimate sentence was decreed, the prisoners fell to their knees and begged the judges and jury to recommend them for mercy. Although the penalty looks severe to a modern audience, the 'Criminal Code' (the 'Bloody Code') that existed in Scotland from 1650 to 1850 meant that property was safeguarded at all costs - hence the death sentence.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'The Last Speech, Confession, and dying Declaration of JAMES M'KAEN, who was Executed at the Cross of Glasgow on a new erected Gibbet, on Wednesday the 25th of January 1797, and his body given to the Professor of Anatomy.' This report was extracted from the 'Historical Narrative of M'KAEN'S Life and Transactions', which was published by Brash and Reid of Glasgow.
McKaen (sometimes McKeehan), was sentenced to hang for murdering James Buchanan of Lanarkshire. This entire report, however, appears to be more of a publicity stunt to generate interest in this criminal's memoirs, than to report factual information to the public. There is a list of the most horrendous but compelling crimes detailed, which McKaen denies committing but directs the reader to his book for the in-depth evidence. This is very similar to the part publications, made by people in the public eye, in today's newspapers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'SPEECH / And dying Words of Serjeant Ainslie, who was Execute in the Castle of Edinburgh. / Written in a Letter to his Wife and Children.' This sheet was printed in Edinburgh in 1716.
Although there are other sheets covering this story in the National Library of Scotland's collection, none of them cover the trial and sentencing of William Ainslie. He was executed for high treason involving the sum of £50. Further information on this case, which would have been most interesting, is simply unavailable from broadsides. This publication was probably used as an opportunity to moralise for the masses, in Calvinist and Presbyterian Scotland, than to convey factual information to the public.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Were brought out upon the scaffold erected on the top of the New Gaol, Horsemonger-lane, to undergo the Senteuce of the Law. Colonel Despard came the last upon the scaffold. He made a speech to the surrounding spectators, in which he declared his innocence of the crime for which he was condemned to die. His fellow sufferers said nothing, and all behaved with great decorum, and resignation to their fate.' The report is signed by someone called 'Pelham', and was published by J. Galbraith of Glasgow.
The leader of a gang of Irish rebels, Edward Marcus Despard was executed in Southwark, London, on the 21st of February, 1803, for committing the crime of High Treason. Although the writer goes into great details regarding Despard's last words, unfortunately, he does not tell his audience what in fact Despard did to deserve this terrible punishment. A colonel in the army, it appears that Despard planned to instigate a revolution, by means of hi-jacking mail coaches. At a time when Britain was fighting in the Napoleonic Wars, any disloyal acts were treated with the utmost severity.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'The last Speech and dying Words of Margaret Millar, Coal-bearer at Golden-cleugh who was execute 10. February 1726 at the Gibbet of Dalkeith, for Murdering her own Child.' The speech begins: ' My Friends, THE present Age is so degenerate into Vice and Immorality, That they have the Ascendant over Godliness and Vertue; whereas Religion and Piety are run down by manifest Profanity, Dissimulation and Hypocrisy'.
As a coal-bearer in the eighteenth century, Margaret Millar is likely to have had little education, and the ornate style of this speech suggests that she had little creative input into her own published last words. This was quite common for the period. Last speeches were a popular subject for broadsides, and broadside authors were practised in making them appealing and affecting to readers. The emotions of guilt and repentance expressed here, while probably genuinely felt by the condemned woman, were also recurring, standard features of this type of broadside report.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH AND DYING WORDS, Of Neil Cordey Sentinel in the Fuziliers, who was Execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh on the 25th Instant; for Murdering John Anderson Coachman in the Cannongate.' It was published in 1719 by Robert Brown of Edinburgh.
The 'last speeches' of condemned criminals were popular subjects for broadside publishers, as well as allowing the subjects some opportunity to make their peace with the world and with God. The speeches were often formulaic and were probably drafted by anonymous scribes. The amount of actual input from the subjects seems to have varied. This example balances specific biographical and case details with standard expressions of contrition and repentance. The facts and sentiments may well have been Neil Cordey's own, but were probably interpreted by an experienced author sensitive to public tastes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'The last Speech and Dying Words of James Thomson Tincklar. Who was Executed for the Murder of Helen Currie, upon the 2d of Aprile, in the Year 1719. At Adincraw, in the Shire of Berwick.' Tincklar's speech begins: ' I AM brought here this Day to suffer, for the horrid and and Unnatural Murder of my fellow Creature.' There is an old Scots word 'tinclarian' meaning 'tinker-like', so 'Tincklar' in this context may be an alternative Scots word for 'tinker'.
Often the 'Last Speeches' published as broadsides were formulaic expressions of repentance that were probably written by anonymous authors and had little input from the condemned person. In this case, however, very specific details of James Thomson Tincklar's life are included, as is a graphic and disturbing description of the crime of which he was convicted. This suggests that while Tincklar may not have committed the speech to paper himself, it is likely he dictated most of the details to a scribe. Tincklar blames his crime on his wife's wicked influence. Such misogynistic defences were commonplace in criminal trials of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This confessional text begins: 'THE LAST / Speech and Confession / OF / Margaret Anderson, who was Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday being the Twenty 2d. of April 1713. for the murdering of her own Child.'
Society's attitude to both illegitimate pregnancies and abortion are clearly expressed in this text, with most of the ultimate responsibility lying with the woman involved. Anderson's 'downfall' is linked with her education and her decision not to place herself under parental authority and advice. The father of the child and his father are both publicly named here, highlighting the very public nature of eighteenth-century atonement.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice continues: 'Of Mr John Andouin, who was executed at Dublin, on Wednesday the 29th of May last 1728. for the Murder of his Maid Margaret Kief; at the place of execution he delivered the following Paper to the Sheriffs.' The speech is 'signed' by John Andouin and was reprinted in Edinburgh in 1728.
There are no further details available on Andouin's crime or his life, but this is not unusual as eighteenth-century execution notices were not published as entertainment but rather as a warning about imperilling your immortal soul. It is curious to note that the text of this sheet is addressed to the crowd, suggesting that the seller or patterer would have moved among the spectators as the action was unfolding.
Capital punishment has become a hotly debated issue during the twentieth century and no doubt will continue to be so. It is, however, interesting to note that certain precautions are taken here. The convict forgives his accusers and judges for the part they played in his death. He also claims that his death, whether for the crime or not, is justified because he is a sinner.This report begins: 'Confession and dying words of the Lives of John Smith, and George Stevenson, who were Executed at the West End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, this day the 21st of January, 1807. For the crime of horse stealing.' The name of the publisher is not included.
This broadside reports the confessions and last words of the horse stealers, John Smith and George Stevenson. Both confessions identify their abandonment of God as the original cause of all their woe, highlighting the belief prevalent at the time that an absence of religion equated with immoral and illegal behaviour. Although the theft of horses might not seem that heinous an offence, the 'Bloody Code' (known as the 'Criminal Code' in Scotland) introduced in 1660 was designed to protect property above all else, hence the execution of these two unfortunates.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH Confession and Dying Words of Donald M'Craw, who was executed at Perth, and his body given to the Doctors for dessection, on Friday the 13th Nov. 1795, for the horrid murder of his wife Ann Adam, when she was within a month of being delivered of a child.' It was published in Perth on 12th November 1795.
The early life of Donald McCraw, described here, follows a pattern that was increasingly common in late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century Scotland. In order to make a living, McCraw had to leave his native Highlands and travel to Glasgow to find work as a weaver. The industrial revolution, firstly in the textiles sector, then later in iron and shipbuilding, saw the population of central lowland Scotland increase dramatically, largely due to migration from the Highlands and Ireland. For many migrants, working and living conditions were harsh, but McCraw does not blame this for the circumstances that caused him to murder his wife, attributing his crime to an 'overbearing temper'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH / AND / DYING WORDS/ Of Janet Hutchie, who was execute in the Grass-market of Edinburgh, upon the 30th of August 1721, for the  Murder of her own Child.' This sheet stops mid-sentence suggesting there was more of the speech on another sheet.
Janet Hutchie confessed to the desire to kill her illegitimate child, although she claims it died very soon after being born, and then hiding the body in her trunk. This is an enlightening glimpse into the moral attitudes of the 1720s. Original sin, apportionment of guilt and divine judgement are all touched on. Some society attitudes are also revealed - the child is never named nor a sex given; Janet talks about virtue, married relations and abortion.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice continues: 'of Mr Robert Irvine, who was Execute May 1st, 1717. near Brughtoun, between Leith and Edinburgh; for Murdering John and Alexander Gordons, Sons to James Gordon of Allan, on Sunday the 28th of April 1717.'
This was a famous case at the time and the broadsides reporting it turned into a series to try and keep up with events. There are also many sheets covering each stage of the event but there are few printer's names attached. Robert Irvine was tutor to the two boys and was convicted of murdering them, whilst out on a picnic. Most of the sordid details are covered by the various sheets - compelling entertainment.
The story also reveals information on how relatively well-to-do families lived in Edinburgh, and how they felt about their children, during the early eighteenth century. This is interesting and useful information for the social historian, which is not always easy to come by from other sources.This broadside begins: 'Confession, and dying declaration of MORT COLLINS, Soldier in the 27th Regiment of foot, who was execute at Glasgow on Wednesday the 7th of November 1792, and his Body given to the doctors, for the murder of John Panton, keeper of Bridewell.'
Collins had been drinking heavily and ended up in an altercation with Panton, keeper of Glasgow's house of correction or Bridewell. Collins ran him through with his bayonet and paid for his rashness with his life. His remains were sent for dissection. It is interesting to note that up until the Anatomy Act was passed in 1832, the only bodies surgeons were legally allowed to dissect were those of executed murderers. It was seen as the ultimate humiliation of the criminal.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, this crime report continues: 'Confession and Dying Words, of ROBERT STEWART, late BOOKBINDER in Edinburgh, who was Executed there on Wednesday FEBRU. 22d, 1809, for the crime of House-breaking and Robbery.' The speech is signed by Robert Stewart himself.
This broadside tells the tragic tale of the terrible fate that befell Robert Stewart, aged 20, who was executed for carrying out a robbery and housebreaking. Apparently written by Stewart himself, he tells of his tragic fall from grace, and thanks the magistrates 'for their attention and convenience'. From 1650 to 1840, the 'Criminal Code' (called the 'Bloody Code' in England) was applied in Scotland, and this law meant that property was defended at all costs - hence the ultimate sentence on Stewart. Stewart concludes his speech by stating that he dies in peace, and warns other young men not to stray from the path of righteousness.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This lamentation continues: 'Of Serjeant William Ainslie, who was executed over the Castle-Wall of Edinburgh for High Treason and Treachery, on Monday the 24th of December, 1716.'
There are other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which cover the more spiritual aspects of William Ainslie's execution. There are few reports which divulge the facts of his sentence and trial though. In another account it is revealed that two city Ministers, Rev. William Mitchel and Mr John Matheson, prayed with Ainslie and led the crowd in prayers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'THE LAST DYING WORDS, SPEECH, & CONFESSION OF ELIZABETH WARRINER, Who was Convicted at the last Lincoln Assizes, for the Horrid Murder of her Step-Son, J. Warriner, by poison, and who was Executed at the City of Lincoln, on Saturday the 27th of Oct. 1821.' It was printed by John Muir of Glasgow and probably sold for one penny.
The story of Elizabeth Warriner and her execution in Lincoln for the grisly murder of her 12 year old stepson, J. Warriner, must have sparked a lot of interest for it to be picked up by a Glasgow publisher. Generally broadside producers specialised in publishing local news and reports for the local market. This broadside, however, indicates that even at a time when travelling long distances was time consuming and often troublesome, stories of such heinous crimes managed to transcend such difficulties.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH / AND / DYING WORDS / OF JOHN TREPLECOCK, / Who was execute in the Grass-market of Edinburgh, on Friday the 1st of February 1723.'
This short tract gives very little information about the criminal or the crime he committed. This text concentrates more on educating readers about the consequences of their actions. Treplecock's crime is given very little emphasis. His bad habits, however, are expounded upon as they are the path to sin and the devil. Religious attitudes at the time believed that cutting the impure body loose from the soul could save the soul.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This lamentation begins: 'Come all kind hearted Christians, likewise my comrades dear, / Unto my lamentation I pray you lend an ear ; / I am a poor unfortunate man, I've brought myself to shame, / By straying in the ways of vice, myself I have to blame.'
Peter McLean was executed in Linlithgow on the 2nd February, 1857, for the murder of Thomas Maxwell on the road between Bathgate and Durhamtown, West Lothian. Although it is unlikely he wrote this lamentation - broadside producers frequently published highly formulaic, repentant 'last speeches' and lamentations - he was said to have made a short speech from the gallows urging people to recognise the Sabbath and avoid alcohol and bad company.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Copy of a very interesting ADDRESS to the prisoners in Jedburgh, Greenlaw and Berwick Jails, written, and delivered to a Friend a few hours before his Death, by ROBERT SCOTT, who was Executed on Wednesday 29th October, 1823, on the Road between Earlston and Greenlaw, for the Murder of Two Men, and his body given for Dissection.' It was published by James MacLean, probably of Glasgow, in 1823, and priced at one penny.
This address to prisoners has a morally didactic tone. It warns in particular against drunkenness, and also against 'whoring, stealing and swearing', exhorting the audience instead to observe the Sabbath and pray to God 'night and day'. The idea that this sermon was written by a man facing death for his sins gives it added urgency. However, the eloquence and biblical register of the language used indicate that Robert Scott did not actually write it. More likely the author was a minister, perhaps one who attended Scott in his final days.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A Letter from Helen Hutton, who was Execute at Haddington, on Friday last, the 25th of February, written to her Mother a few Days before her Execution.' This sheet was published in Edinburgh in 1726.
Hutton appears to have been involved in the robbery and then murder of her master and mistress with others: the language, however, is fairly convoluted and her crime is not the topic of this text. Rather her repentance and the degree of her guilt both in thought and in action is under question. The support of Hutton's family is also emphasised.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Here you have the Melancholy and Penitent Address to the Public, by David Dobie and John Thomson, dated from their Cells in the Calton Jail, where they are now awaiting the execution of their sentence on Wednesday morning next ; and also, an affecting Letter written by David Dobie to his Wife.' Printed by Forbes and Owen, Edinburgh.
Part of a long sequence of broadsides dedicated to a murder that occurred near Gilmerton in 1830, this sheet includes a letter apparently written by Dobie to his wife, followed by a joint lamentation and confession to the public that the two prisoners seemingly wrote. While Dobie's simple and touching letter to his wife reads true, the verbose and exaggerated literary style of the joint lamentation is not perhaps the tone of writing one would normally associate with lowly carters, and contrasts sharply with the reported spoken words of the two men. It seems likely that the printer hired a hack writer to compose this piece, in the sure knowledge that crime broadsides sold the most copies.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'The last Speech and Dying Words of John Webster Gardiner at Greenhill; who was Execute at Greenside, near Broughtoun, for the Horrid Murder of Marjory Campbell, a Girl.' Attributed to John Webster.
This broadside takes a strong moral stance and, as such, sets the scene with a tale of Webster's hard childhood. He survived due to charity and strong role models but eventually he fell into bad habits. He fathered an illegitimate child and was called to atone before his parish. The last part of the speech focuses on divine punishment and judgement.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'The second last Speech of Mort Collins, who was execute at Glasgow on Wednesday the seventh of Novr. 1792, for the murder of John Panton, giving an account of his behaviour in prison and on the scaffold. To which is added the copy of a letter with his own hand to a friend. Also, the copy of a letter he received from Capt. Cook, while under sentence of death.'
Irish-born soldier Mortimer Collins was only 22. He and his friend Peter Owens had been drinking heavily on the night of 25th July 1792 and had run into John Panton, keeper of Glasgow's house of correction, or Bridewell. Collins chased Panton up Jaffray's Close and murdered him, stabbing him with his bayonet. The executioner was the reviled John Sutherland, also known as 'Hangy Jock'.
Captain Cook was probably Collins' commanding officer.This execution notice begins: 'THE / Last SPEECH and DYING WORDS / OF / Ancient Bavar Officer in Montiqu's Regiment. Who was execute at the Tron of Perth upon the Second Day of July 1720. For killing of Mr. Daroch Dancing-Master.'
Here the murderer reveals very little about his state of mind or who he is as a person but instead concentrates on how blameless his parents are, how deeply involved in wickedness he was and the actual details of the murder. All of this amounts to an entertaining story with a moral theme. This sort of text would eventually become formulaic, with printers often using the same plate and just changing the name.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution report begins: 'The last SPEECH, confession, and dying declaration of WILLIAM SCOTT, who was Executed at the Cross of Glasgow, on Wednesday the 3d of December, 1788, for the crime of house-breaking and theft.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that the prisoner wrote this entire letter in the presence of the witnesses, James Brownlie and William Young, who worked as turnkeys in the jail.
The court case of William Scott and his brother, John, was highly unusual in its outcome - totally bizarre, in fact. The brothers were up before Sheriff Depute William Honeyman in Glasgow on three charges of theft by housebreaking. When they were sentenced to death, William exclaimed 'I am a guilty man, my brother is not so guilty as me!' John Scott was subsequently reprieved, while William was executed in Glasgow by the hand of John Sutherland. In this letter, William makes his peace with God, in the hope that the Almighty will offer him the quality of mercy that the Establishment refused him.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'A copy of a very affecting and interesting letter, written by William Perrie, before his execution, on Wedneday, and which was found in the Condemned Cell, after his execution, addressed to Mr Mason, one of the elders who attended him when in Jail.' The letter was sourced from the 'Glasgow Herald' of the 23rd October, 1837.
What then follows is a short letter, purportedly written by Perrie, followed by an account of his behaviour leading up to the execution. William Perrie was executed in Paisley on the 18th October, 1837, for murdering his wife, Mary Mitchell, in a fit of jealous rage. This broadside would have likely sold well, as it contains not one but two reports. The second is totally unrelated and details the discovery of some ancient coins in the Cathedral of Glasgow.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'The SECOND PART / Of the Last SPEECH, Confession and dying Words of JAMES DICK, who was executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 16th of May 1792, and his Body given to the Professor of Anatomy to be dissected, For the horrid and cruel murder of his own Wife. ------To which is added, an account of his behaviour in Prison, and on the Scaffold.'
Although we are not told the name of the publisher, it is likely that it was Joseph Galbraith of Glasgow. We know this because the National Library of Scotland holds another broadside, by Galbraith, promising a second part to Dick's confession. A sensational case like Dick's could generate much revenue for the broadside publishers and serialisation maximised profit potential. It is interesting to note that Dick's words are apparently genuine, since they were verified by the prison guard, or 'turnkey', John McDougal. It was not uncommon for these 'last speeches' to be composed by enterprising publishers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'The SECOND PART / Of the Last SPEECH, Confession and dying Words of JAMES DICK, who was executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 16th of May 1792, and his Body given to the Professor of Anatomy to be dissected, For the horrid and cruel murder of his own Wife. ------To which is added, an account of his behaviour in Prison, and on the Scaffold.'
Although we are not told the name of the publisher, it is likely that it was Joseph Galbraith of Glasgow. We know this because the National Library of Scotland holds another broadside, by Galbraith, promising a second part to Dick's confession. A sensational case like Dick's could generate much revenue for the broadside publishers and serialisation maximised profit potential. It is interesting to note that Dick's words are apparently genuine, since they were verified by the prison guard, or 'turnkey', John McDougal. It was not uncommon for these 'last speeches' to be composed by enterprising publishers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.
This account begins: 'The SECOND PART / Of the Last SPEECH, Confession and dying Words of JAMES DICK, who was executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 16th of May 1792, and his Body given to the Professor of Anatomy to be dissected, For the horrid and cruel murder of his own Wife. ------To which is added, an account of his behaviour in Prison, and on the Scaffold.'
Although we are not told the name of the publisher, it is likely that it was Joseph Galbraith of Glasgow. We know this because the National Library of Scotland holds another broadside, by Galbraith, promising a second part to Dick's confession. A sensational case like Dick's could generate much revenue for the broadside publishers and serialisation maximised profit potential. It is interesting to note that Dick's words are apparently genuine, since they were verified by the prison guard, or 'turnkey', John McDougal. It was not uncommon for these 'last speeches' to be composed by enterprising publishers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'The LAST SPEECH, Confession, and dying Words of JAMES DICK, who was executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 16th of May 1792, and his Body given to the Professor of Anatomy to be dissected. For the horrid and cruel murder of his own Wife.' Published in Glasgow by Joseph Galbraith.
James Dick was a 32 year-old shoemaker. He had a turbulent marriage to his alcoholic wife Isobel Russell, and after many arguments, murdered her at their home in Glasgow's Briggate. The quality of writing is so good, the publisher promises to print a second part, which is also held by the National Library of Scotland.
One of the most poignant sections is at the very end when Dick says of his wife, 'In the course of time that we have been together she has born me six children, which are all dead, thank God for it.'This crime report begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH Confession and dying Words, of ANN MORISON, who was execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh, on the 7th of March, 1759. for the horrid Crime of mudering her own Child.' The broadside carries no publication details.
The 'last speeches' of condemned criminals were quite commonly reproduced on broadsides, but it is unlikely that many were published verbatim. Rather, they were probably written by anonymous broadside journalists, based on an amalgamation of facts that had emerged at the subject's trial, confessions or comments that the prisoner had made to visiting ministers after the trial, and a few stock sentiments of contrition, repentance and warning. Ann Morison's 'last words' very much follow the standard for this sort of broadside, beginning with a brief personal history, continuing with an admission of guilt and pleas for God's forgiveness, and culminating with lengthy warnings to other potential sinners.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH, CONFESSION and DYING WORDS of JOHN M'MILLAN, Who was executed at the Cross of Glasgow, on Wednesday, 16th of May, 1798, for the horrid Crime of Murder, committed on the Body of ALEXANDER MOODIE, late Gardener in Glasgow.'
The life of John McMillan, as allegedly recounted by himself, was a very colourful one. He began working life as a cattle-herd in his native Highlands, then served in the Queen's Highlanders and Scots Fusilers, before studying at Chelsea college in London. He then returned to Glasgow, and several years later committed murder on Alexander Moodie after an argument over an outstanding bill. His flight from justice involved returning to the Highlands and London, before his eventual capture in Edinburgh.
'Dying words' were a popular topic for broadsides, and in many cases, especially in later broadsides, they followed such a standard formula that the suspicion lingers over whether the subject actually had any input into them. In this example, the amount of biographical detail included suggests that John McMillan was involved in the composition of his last words, although it is likely that they were dictated to a scribe.This broadside begins: 'The Last Speech and Dying Words, OF THE CROSS of EDINBURGH Which was hang'd drawn and quarter'd, on Monday the 15th March, 1756, for the horrid Crime of being an Incumbrance to the Street.' The last speech begins: 'You sons of Scotia, mourn and weep, / Express your grief with sorrow deep'.
This broadside parodies the last speeches that were often uttered by people before their execution. It is written as if from the point of view of the 'Cross of Edinburgh', more commonly known as the Mercat Cross, and offers an interesting insight into the events that occurred in its vicinity. The Mercat Cross is situated close to St Giles Cathedral and was traditionally the chosen location for public announcements, gatherings and executions. Although it was removed in 1756 and taken to Drum House, Prime Minister Gladstone (1809-1898), who was also the MP for Midlothian, was instrumental in returning the Cross to its original location in 1885.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This last speech begins: 'GEORGE CLERK'S LAST SPEECH AND DYING WORDS on the Scaffold and at Pennycuick, with his farewell Address to his beloved friend, Dundas, late Member for the City of Edinburgh ; together with his EPITAPH.' It was to be sung to the tune of 'Miller of Drone'. 'By Willison Glass' is written at the bottom of the sheet, after the epitaph.
Whilst most epitaphs remember the deceased fondly, here, Satan is called upon to make George Clerk's stay in hell as hellish as possible: 'O! Satan, turn Clerk on a speet, / . . . / That he may suffer for his crimes / Eternity of pain.' Interestingly, this last line has been scored out and has been replaced with 'of purgatory pain'. As to the last speech, it was most certainly not written by George Clerk himself. 'Castlereagh' likely refers to the politician, Lord Castlereagh (1769-1822), who committed suicide by cutting his throat with a penknife.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Last speech of MARGARET CUNNINGHAME before her exeution, Who was executed at the west end of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 7th of January, for the horrid crime of poisoning John Mason, her husband, in February last, and her body given for Dissection.' The name of the publisher is not included on this broadside.
This broadside tells the unhappy tale of Margaret Cunningham, who was executed in 1807 for poisoning her husband. As she was pregnant at the time of her trial in Perth in May 1806, sentence was postponed and an interlocution announced. This reprieve was merely temporary, however, and she was sentenced to death in November 1806. After describing her good upbringing and mentioning that much of the blame for her tragic predicament lay with her secret lover, John Skinner, the sheet concludes with a hellfire warning to others that there is no hiding place from God.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'The Last Farewel and Lamentation of Mrs McLEOID, who was execute in the Grass-Market of Edinburgh on the 8th of March 1727, for the Crime of Forgery, with her last Farewel to the World.' The first verse begins: 'All People now both far and near, / that sees my wretched State, / Lament my Case, for why I am / Oh! Most Unfortunate.' A woodcut illustration of a woman surrounded by foliage has been included at the top of this sheet.
Although it appears from this broadside that these were the last words of Mrs McLeoid, it is very unlikely that she actually wrote them. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection contains many examples of 'genuine' last speeches and lamentations, in which the criminal prays for salvation and issues a warning to all those tempted to travel down the same path. In reality, the vast majority of these highly formulaic and sermonising speeches were created by the broadside producers themselves.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside ballad begins: 'The last Speech and Confession of Jannet Riddle, who was Execute, for murthering her own Child, in the Grass Market of Edinburgh, January 21st. 1702.' The name of the publisher is not included.
Written entirely in verse form and from a first person viewpoint, this broadside claims to be the last speech and confession of Jannet Riddle, who was executed in 1702 for killing her own child - the sex of which is not identified. Given the low level of literacy at this time, it is highly unlikely that Jannet Riddle actually wrote this ballad. It was probably written by a professional broadside writer who knew that sheets reporting crime sold numerous copies. After detailing the bloody act, the ballad goes on to confess the crime and begs the Lord for mercy.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This execution notice begins: 'The last Speech and dying Declaration of JAMES HENDERSON, late in Bainshole, who was executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 29th day of October 1790, for the murder of Alexander Gillespie, Slater, and his body given to the Surgeons to be dissected.' This sheet was first printed in Aberdeen by James Chalmers and then reprinted in Glasgow.    
 
Henderson  murdered Gillespie with an axe, when the latter called peacably at his house, asking for a drink. James Chalmers (1742-1810), the son of James Chalmers, enjoyed a full and varied career in the field of publishing. Although broadsides and chapbooks produced by him survive, he was also responsible for publishing religious volumes and story-books. He began business in 1764 and became a Company in 1771. He also went into the paper-mill business with his son-in-law. He eventually became embroiled in an inconclusive pamphlet war with George Forbes, a Dundonian advocate.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'THE / Last SPEECH and CONFESSION / AND / DYING WORDS / OF HELLEN MARISHAL / Who was executed at the Grass-Market of Edinburgh, upon the Thirty Day of March, One thousand Seven hundred and twenty, for the Crime of Murdering her own Child.' This sheet was printed in Edinburgh, at the bottom of Horse Wynd, in 1720.
Helen Marishal was nineteen when she was convicted of murdering her illegitimate child. She recounts how she birthed the child herself, hid the evidence and continued working - quite a terrifying experience for a nineteen-year-old. She is being punished, according to this text, not for fornication, but for disobeying her parents and killing an innocent child.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / Words and Confession / OF / DAVID MYLES / Who was Executed for Incest, at Edinburgh, on the 27 Day of November, 1702.'
Although this would have been an excellent opportunity to entertain the audience with sordid and squalid details of an incestuous relationship, this text takes a higher moral tone. Reflecting the concerns of society at the time, emphasis is placed on parental guidance and control, and living a Godly and worthy life. It is interesting to note that David dies repentant, while his sister died 'obdurate and obstinately', unrepentant.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'A True and Exact / COPY / OF THE / PAPER / Delivered by / CHRISTOPHER LAYER, / At the Place of EXECUTION, &c./ Inclosed in a Cover superscrib'd, / To Mr. Walter Price, Under-Sheriff, at this House in Castle-Yard, in / Holburn.'
It was normal for some sort of 'last speech' from the sentenced prisoner to be reported by broadside publishers. Whether they actually happened or not and whether all the reporting was accurate is, however, another matter. These last speeches were often used as a forum for philosophising and moralising on anti-social behaviour. This document, however authentic, does not even mention anti-social behaviour, rather it is a list of persons who have received a copy of the letter. It is in fact a rather odd document to leave as one's last comment on earth! Layer was executed on 17 May 1723.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This comic broadside begins: 'The DEADLY GROANS of the WHISKY STILLS: who were condemned to suffer Martyrdom on the 17th of thei spresent month of July 1795, for the horrid and bloody murder of starving above 200,000 professed Christians in this island. With the sorrowful lamentation of all the Dram-Drinkers.' There are no publication details included.
Last words or speeches from the scaffold, attributed to condemned criminals, were quite commonly printed on broadsides. The example shown here is a parody of the 'last word' category of broadside. It is supposedly narrated by a whisky still facing 'execution'. This comic piece was undoubtedly inspired by the crackdown on illegal whisky distilling which occurred in the late eighteenth century. The vast majority of whisky in Scotland was produced illicitly from illegal stills, due to the high taxation on malt whisky, and in the 1780s and 1790s, thousands of illegal stills were seized and destroyed.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An Account of the Life and Dying Confession of William Anderson Horner, Son to Peter Anderson Horner, Living in the Parish of Saline in the Shire of Perth, who murdered Elison Mitchell, Wife of David Blythe Horner also, in the beginning of Winter, 1708. in the manner following.'
Scotland's legal profession, at this time, adhered to the 'bloody code' which protected the upper-classes' property at all costs. Murder, however, still carried a high penalty, even amongst the working class. This sensational and sordid story would probably have sold to a wide audience, with its narrative of brotherhood betrayed, sound advice ignored and the juxtaposition of the good mother and the evil younger woman. Broadsides were the forerunners of modern newspapers due to the stories they covered, the style they were written in and the audience they could reach.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.