This light-hearted story begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of that Awful BLOODY BATTLE for the BREEKS! that was Fought last Saturday Night, in this Neighbourhood between a Sprightly Young Couple, who had been married a whole Fortnight; and which did not end without Torn Clothes, Broken Heads and Bloody Noses; together with a Copy of the Articles of Agreement made between them, after the Battle was over.' The sheet was published by A. Turnbull of Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
Through using the word 'battle' in its introduction, this amusing broadside makes a domestic quarrel between a husband and wife sound like the clash of the titans. A mock-epic in style, the story revolves around that proverbial Scottish saying regarding which one of a married couple 'wears the breeks' in the house. In short, who rules the roost? The author reports that the young wife was out with her friends, but returned home late and rather tipsy. Taking exception to such deviant behaviour, the husband starts arguing with her and - suddenly! - crockery and furniture is flying everywhere. Happily, the story ends with the couple reconciled via the drawing up of two official articles of agreement.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'In this fair town not long ago, / As I have heard the story go'. The sheet carries a detailed woodcut depicting an amorous couple in a doorway, being spied upon by a group of gents.
This rather chilling and gruesome tale is very revealing about Victorian relationships and society. The emphasis on marriage and childbearing is explicit here as well as the wife's frustration at her inability to fulfil this role. The husband then seeks a less tense relationship with the maid, which leads to her downfall. It is made clear that this is her fault and she should have resisted the husband's advances. In turn, the wife then claims that she too will have many men, an almost impossible claim to make good at this time.
Any references to the physicalities of the relationship have been left blank, but it does suggest that these topics were talked about by Victorian couples. Pregnancy is also not named in this text. Although having many children was the preferred state of affairs, pregnancy itself was thought to be quite disgusting and pregnant women were not supposed to show themselves in society.This epithalamium begins: 'In compensation of your Vademecum, / It seems now to be alias tecum, / Than when you call'd us Shamout Whores, / or going masked out of doors.' There are no publication details available for this broadside. However, a note at the bottom of the sheet states that it was 'Completed by a Lady of Honour'.
An epithalamium is a song or poem in celebration of a marriage. In this epithalamium, the author (a female, apparently) writes in a humorous vein about the marriage between Captain James Donaldson, a gazetteer and observator, and Mrs Jean Reid, alias Mrs Scot. Unfortunately, there does not appear to be further information regarding these two individuals, or the marriage. As for the poem, written in rhyming couplets, it is a mixture of the ribald, erudite and humorous - in short, exactly the sort of light-hearted tone that a wedding song should be.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical broadside begins: '1. I am thy husband; thou shalt have no other husband but me, whom thou didst vow to love, honour and obey; for I saved thee from old-maidenism, and rescued thee from the terror of single blessedness.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published, or supplied, by 'L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee'.
Parodying the Ten Commandments, the writer of this light-hearted broadside informs his audience that husbands, rather than God, are the all-powerful deities that women should really be worshipping. Employing bible-like language, the writer proceeds to give ten amusing reasons why wives should unquestioningly obey their husbands. Although the writing is completely male chauvinist pig in tone, it should be noted that this broadside is part of a pair. 'The Wife's Commandments' is written from the perspective of a female chauvinist sow, and answers the husband's orders with her own decrees. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains both of these humorous broadsides.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This epithalamium begins: 'A WEDDING SONG ON The Right Honourable, The Earl of WEEMS, and Mrs. Jannet Charters now Countess of WEEMS.' The song begins: 'WHEN Adam first was plac'd in Paradice, / His Spouse he mist, tho' other Happiness / Did so abound, over all Creatures he.'
An epithalamium is a song or poem celebrating a marriage. This particular one marks the nuptials of James, 5th Earl of Wemyss and Janet Charteris, who married in Edinburgh on the 17th September, 1720. The marriage of such high-profile figures would have sparked a large amount of interest amongst the public. In response to this, broadside producers issued epithalamiums or marriage songs; whether they were commissioned is unclear. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes an interesting selection of epithalamiums.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This humorous broadside begins: 'A particular Account of the comical Wedding of Mary Ritchie, a YOUNG MAID of 45, and Peter Murphy, a lusty YOUTH of 73, which took place on Thursday last in a Village near Edinburgh . . . to which is added an Account of a bloody Battle that was fought at the End of the Marriage Feast'. It was published by T. Duncan of the Saltmarket, Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
This broadside provides the reader with a witty account of the celebrations following Ritchie and Murphy's wedding. Not only is the author of this account highly amused by the advanced ages of the newly-weds, and their reasons for postponing the wedding, he also bears witness to a spectacular drunken brawl and provides a list of 'blue Eyes, bloody Noses, scratched Faces, and damaged Wigs'. This highly amusing and tongue-in-cheek account would probably have sold extremely well, if for no other reason than its sheer entertainment value.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that Funny and Laughable WEDDING that took place in Crosscauseway, Edinburgh, on Tuesday Evening, the 15th March 1815, between a young Dashing Highland Lad, and a well known Old Lady of that place.' Unfortunately, no publication details have been included, although handwritten at the top of the sheet is the date, '20 March, 1825'.
Broadsides regarding such unlikely unions appear to have been extremely popular and elicited much humour. The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes many such accounts. In some cases, the marriage is between a rather pretty young woman and a decrepit old man. Here, however, the tables have been turned and it is a rather dashing young man wishing to wed a much older woman. It soon becomes apparent that the young man has abandoned his bride at the alter and run off with the funds he was given to clothe himself for the occasion. Highly formulaic and very possibly invented for sheer entertainment value, it nevertheless appears rather heartless to describe this poor woman's predicament as 'Funny and Laughable'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A full and particular Account of the Sale of a Woman, named Mary Mackintosh, which took place on Wednesday Evening, the 16th of July, 1828, in the Grass Market of Edinburgh, accused by her Husband of being a notorious Drunkard; with the Particulars of the bloody Battle which took place afterwards.' It was printed by W. Boag of Newcastle, and probably sold for one penny.
This rather disturbing incident must have sparked considerable interest for it to be picked up by a Newcastle publisher. In most instances, local events were largely reported by local publishers. It is reassuring that people at the time, in particular women, were shocked and outraged by these events and attempted to halt the proceedings. As Mary MacKintosh would have known only too well, a woman who entered into marriage at this time automatically became the property of her husband.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'NEW INTENDED Act of Parliament, To be passed into a Law, on the first meeting of the Reformed Members in the House of Commons.' A brief verse then appears, followed by a list of resolutions. It was printed by Menzies of the Lawnmarket, Edinburgh, and probably sold for one penny.
Although the introduction to this document suggests a rather serious subject matter, it quickly descends into farce. Possibly in reaction to the Reform Bills of the nineteenth century, which were not considered far-reaching enough by a large proportion of the population, the author of this piece calls on the Reformed Members to consider his list of resolutions. The first proposal suggests the formation of 'henpecked societies' for all men who find themselves mistreated by their 'hard-hearted wives'. The remaining ten proposals are equally as humorous.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical broadside begins: '1. I am thy wife, and the sole mistress of thy house; thou shalt not have any other wife but me, whom thou did vow to love and cherish.' Although no publication date is included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published, or supplied, by 'L. Macartney, The Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee'.
This light-hearted broadside and parody of the Ten Commandments is an answer to another sheet entitled, 'The Husband's Commandments', which is also included in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Using biblical language, the author gives ten rib-tickling reasons as to why husbands should unquestioningly obey their wives. The sheet is written from the perspective of a female chauvinist sow, and warns errant husbands that wives, rather than God, are the all-powerful deities that men should really be worshipping. In addition to legislating against her husband forming even platonic friendships with other women, the wife also states that the husband must do all the housework on Sundays, as the wife labours so hard on the other six days.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This comic dialogue begins: 'Dramatis Personæ, - FALKLAND, BELCOUR. /  Enter Belcour and Falkland, /  Falk. What, Belcou! how are you my friend? you look sad. / Bal. no. do I?'  The broadside was published by William Shepherd at the Poet's Box, 182 Overgate, Dundee. It does not carry a price or a date of publication.
Marriage was a common source of comedy in broadside ballads and sketches. Ironically, given that men in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries enjoyed far more social freedoms and advantages than women, such broadsides often depicted women getting the better of men or being the dominant partners. This dialogue is typical in making fun of men. It features two men arguing over the merits of their respective fiancées. The punchline to the routine comes when the two discover they are both engaged to the same woman.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'IN Autumn when Seges decores the Fields, / And Phoebus all plentiful Desierds yeelds. / These Creatures who did formerly bewail / Their hard Estate, sing now in Annandale'. The wedding between Charles, 1st Earl of Hopetoun, and Henrietta, daughter to the Rt Hon. Earl of Annandale, took place on 31st August, 1699.
Charles Hope's father bought the Hopetoun Estates just outside Edinburgh, in 1678. Charles and his mother, Margaret, commissioned Sir Willliam Bruce, with the help of Robert Adam, to build Hopetoun House in 1699. Charles became 1st Earl of Hopetoun in 1703. He and Henrietta had at least two children. Nowadays Hopetoun House is open to the public.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'THE Grievious Complaint of the Beaux and the Bads, And a the young Widows, and Lasses and Lads, For Death's taking Mas: James Crouckshanks awa, Who buckl'd the Beggers at Mountounha. / Interr'd in the Church-yeard of Inverask, the 29. of March 1724.' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
It appears that the curate, James Crouckshanks, was a law unto himself: 'He valued neither Kirk or Law'. A colourful character who was fond of a tipple, Crouckshanks is best remembered as the man 'Who buckl'd the Beggers at Mountounha'. 'Buckle-the-beggars' is a old Scots term for someone who is willing to conduct clandestine or unconventional marriages.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This report begins: 'The inhabitants of this town were highly delighted and amused on the night of Tuesday last, by a Wedding of rather a singular and uncommon description which took place here on that day, and afforded no little sport to the young and old of both sexes, who had assembled in great numbers to meet the wedding party returning from the house of the Rev. Mr ____'. The broadside was published by Sanderson of the High Street in Edinburgh.
Weddings between people of vastly differing generations seemed to be regarded with great amusement and interest by Scots of the early nineteenth century, and the National Library of Scotland holds more than one broadside on the theme. It is impossible to tell how much basis this report has in fact, and how much it has been embroidered for the enjoyment of its readership. The wedding described culminates with the bride absconding with the groom's money and her former lover as the guests fight among themselves and the groom sleeps. This seems such a perfect farce that it is difficult to believe it is true.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This wedding tribute begins: 'Permit, My Lord, me to congratulate / This your succession to a married state; / Whereby, My Lord, if guess aright I do, / (And Poets oftimes have been Prophets, too).' Although no publication details are included on this sheet, it must have been published shortly after Monday the 6th of April, 1702, which is the date when the couple became husband and wife.
This broadside takes the form of an epithalamium - that is, a song or poem in celebration of a marriage. In this epithalamium, the writer celebrates the marriage of James Marquess of Montrose to Lady Christian Carnegie, on Monday the 6th of April, 1702. James Graham was the grandson of the celebrated Marquis of Montrose, while Christian Carnegie was the daughter of the late Earl of North Esk. Clearly, this was very much a high society wedding of its time. Although there is little information about their marriage, the couple produced three sons: David Graham, 1st Earl Graham; William Graham, 2nd Duke of Montrose; and George Graham, MP.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'Now you married women all, / Your attention I do call, / And a good advice ill give you I am thinking, / For the husband I have got'. The woodcut at the top of the sheet depicts a well-dressed couple standing in a leafy clearing. They appear to have fallen out, however, as their bodies are stiff and turned away from one another.
This poem, unusually for broadside literature, reveals the horrors of alcoholism. The fact that Biddy, the wife, is beaten, their children starve and most of their possessions have been sold is all clearly delineated in the text. No censure of Barney for this behaviour or a real solution to the problem is presented though. It is also implicit in the text that there is no avenue of refuge or escape for Barney's family in their society. Biddy's rather novel attempt at a solution is to sew her husband into his bed sheets, when he falls asleep drunk. As a result Barney was reformed!
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.