This account begins: 'A Full and particular Account the Apprehension of Robert Dempster, junior, Slater in Cupar of Fife, accused of the murder of McDONALD, a Flax-Dresser, with his slate-hammer, on the High Road between Craigrothie and Wemyss Hall Gate, a few weeks ago, and who is now lodged in Cupar Jail, having been Apprehended at Doune, on Monday Evening the 25th October 1830.'
The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes a broadside detailing Dempster's slate-hammer attack on George McDonald. It was issued while McDonald, although severly injured from the assault, was still alive. By the time the broadside shown here was printed, however, McDonald was already dead. It was common for a crime to be reported over several broadsides. The first usually dealt with the crime itself, with subsequent sheets detailing the apprehension of the criminal, a confession or trial, the execution and, finally, a last speech.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This moral text begins: 'A respectable Midwife, who died in Falkirk, under severe suffering from the loss of the use of her limbs, but more especially the pangs of a guilty conscience'. The midwife, Simpson, it is recounted, died on Tuesday 27th July, 1841. This broadside was printed by Saunders.
Simpson, dying in the greatest of agonies to atone for her crimes, supposedly confessed to up to 20 instances of child-murder and infanticide. She had worked as a successful midwife in and around Falkirk and was believed to have been of a 'sanctimonious' disposition. Midwives, however, were mainly treated with suspicion by most sections of the community, despite the fact that many women relied on their discretion, skills and knowledge. Although outrage is displayed here, in an age without contraceptives or legal access to terminations, infanticide was a common occurrence.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This crime report begins: 'A / Faithful NARRATIVE / OF / The Circumstances of the Cruelty committed upon the Body of John Halden in the Abbay of Holy-Rood-House, on Tuesday the 7th of April Instant, who died the next day.' No further dates are given and there is no publisher's name included.
This narrative is very revealing about the Scotland John Halden lived in. John travels from Hamilton across the country to Edinburgh looking for work because of poverty. He then calls at the Duke of Hamilton's residence expecting patronage. He calls at the back door for scraps and he is met by the Earl of Rutherglen's coachman and the butler, who bangs Halden's head of a column. Surgeon's eventually donate their services and when Halden is pronounced dead they saw his head open - presumably because there was no family to protect the body.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A full and particular Account of a most lamentable Dispute, that took place between Margaret Thompson and John Con, a Coal-driver, at Elderslie, near Paisley, during which he stabbed the uunfortunate Woman, who was pregnant, with a poker, of which wound she died, and he is now a Prisoner in Paisley Jail.'
This factual account detailing the stabbing of Margaret Thompson by John Con after he had argued with his wife, is used as an opportunity to moralise on the consequences of rash and hot-headed actions. At this point John Con had been taken into custody but nothing further had unfolded. It was usual for cases to be printed in instalments to keep the audience up to date with all the latest happenings.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Apprehension of Robert Dempster, junior, Slater in Cupar of Fife, accused of the Murder of M'DONALD, a Flax-Dresser, with his slate-hammer, on the High Road between Craigrothie and Wemyss Hall Gate, a few weeks ago, and who is now lodged in Cupar Jail, having been Apprehended at Doune, on Monday Evening the 25th October 1830.'
Although this story covers the details, confession and arrest of Robert Dempster for the murder of the man, McDonald, there are many more social details revealed by this text. The drinking habits and movements of the working class in 1830s Scotland are touched on as well as their social interaction. The text refers to one English speaking and  one non-English speaking drover, highlighting the prevalence of Gaelic in Scottish society and its acceptance. Finally Dempster had plans to escape to America, so a fresh start and the option of travelling to America were well known by all levels of society.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the different murders to which John Stewart and his female associate has made confession to since their condemnation, making eleven in all, with the names of the places where some of them were committed with the manner they took to Murder their victims, and then rob them.' The sheet was published by Carmichael and Graham of the Trongate in Glasgow, and the story was sourced from the Edinburgh Scotsman and Caledonian Mercury newspapers.
The National Library of Scotland holds several broadsides featuring this case, and if the claims that they killed up to eleven people are true, it is quite surprising that Stewart and his accomplice Catherine Wright do not remain more notorious today. Comparisons are made in the report with Burke and Hare, whose trial for multiple murder in December 1828 occurred only seven months before Stewart and Wright's trial.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Apprehension of THOMAS MOFFAT, who fled from Kilsyth about three years ago, for the Barbarous Murder of his own Father, by repeated Stabs in the abdomen! With an Account of his Confession and also of the manner in which he spent his life since, &c.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh for James McLean and priced at one penny.
Moffat's eventual arrest took place on the 7th October 1825 in Auchinearn. At the time, he was working as a weaver under the alias of George Watson. As with most crime broadsides, this one ends with a moral lesson for the readership. The report claims that Moffat was unable to live with himself following the murder, 'When in jail, he [Moffat] said to Mr Leckie that it was the happiest night he had since he committed the deed'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Confession of EMOND / In the Jail, on the day after he received sentence of death.' The confession has been sourced from a newspaper entitled the 'North Briton'.
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a number of other broadsides detailing the high profile case of Robert Emond. As is so common with broadsides, the information supplied here has been copied from a newspaper. With no copyright laws in place to restrict such practices, broadside printers used such means not only to keep costs down, but to acquire information 'hot off the press' which could then be sold on for less. The heavy taxation on newspapers and subsequent high prices, meant that most newspapers had a relatively small circulation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'I am a poor unhappy man, James Bryce it is my name, / I murdered my brother-in-law, I may tell it all with shame'. Above the title a woodcut illustration of an isolated house in the forest, next to a river, has been included.
According to the narrative Bryce occasionally pawned items to his wife's brother, as his situation was often desperate. He returned one evening for more money, but when refused, killed Geddes, his brother-in-law, with a pair of fire tongs. The text reveals Bryce's plans for escape and his state of mind. In the last instance, a comparison is drawn with the biblical story of Cain and Abel. There are other broadsides on this case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the wonderful discovery of the murderer of William Begbie, Porter to the British Linen Company's Bank, who was murdered in November, 1806, in the Bank Close, Nether Bow, and Robbed of nearly £5,000, with the whole particulars how the Murderer was discovered.' The name of the publisher is not included on this sheet.
This peculiar broadside, published in 1820, sensationally claims to answer the riddle of an unsolved murder and robbery from 1806. The sum taken in this robbery was £5,000, which would be worth around £206,000 today. The circumstantial evidence provided in the broadside appears less than conclusive, however, and is based on retrospective gossip from the underworld. The accused murderer, Moffat (alias Mackoull), certainly denies all knowledge of the crime, and claims he won his fortune at the gaming tables in Dublin.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of a bloody murder commited on the body of Mary Grier above the Cross Glasgow, upon Monday Novr. 8th 1790. By John Henderson her own husband. IT is lamentable to hear of the cruelties committed of late in this Kingdom, and especially in Glasgow and its neighbourhood . . .' The broadside carries no publication details.
The murder described in this report is one of particular cruelty. John Henderson, a bigamist with a history of cruelty to both his lawful and his unlawful wives, allegedly killed Mary Grier with his bare hands when she was far advanced in pregnancy. Broadsides were frequently misogynistic, and implied that wives provoked their violent husbands, but in this case the broadside author is wholly sympathetic to the victim, and condemns John Henderson. As the broadside was produced before the case went to trial, Henderson's fate is not recorded.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of a most cruel and inhuman Murder, which was committed at Mile End, Bridgeton, on Monday evening last, on the body of Sarah M'Viccar, a fine young woman about 18 years of age, who was stabbed in the throat by her Sweetheart, Charles Campbell, in a fit of jealousy, and instantly fell dead at his feet - 5th December, 1825.' The sheet was published in 1825 by John Muir of Glasgow.
With its reference to Shakespeare's 'green-eyed monster' of jealousy (quoted from the play, 'Othello'), this broadside reports a terrible murder that occurred when an older man killed his young sweetheart during a jealous rage. Though originally lovers and co-habitees, Sarah McViccar and Charles Campbell had parted following an argument. Campbell must have been obsessed with his former sweetheart, however, for after seeing her sitting on the knee of a supposed rival in a public house, he abruptly left the room, only to return later to plunge a knife into the girl's throat. Given the dominant theme of an older man trying to control the behaviour of a younger woman, the parallel with Othello seems particularly apt.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of a barbarous and cruel MURDER Committed on the body JAMES PARK, late bleacher, at Pollock Shaws, by Robert Mitchell, changekeeper at Strabungo on Wednesday the 10th of October 1792.'
This eighteenth-century crime report is written in a more formal and verbose style than many of the later, more sensationalist broadside reports that foreshadow today's tabloid newspapers. The case itself is a relatively unremarkable one, of a man robbed and then murdered after an argument with the alleged thief. These simple facts are framed by a long discourse on the moral decline of the country, in which the author quotes at length from the Bible.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: A full account of the barbarous MURDER That was committed on the body of MARY FRAZER, alias Adam, at the West Port of Edinburgh in her own house, and who died on Sunday the 3d day of July 1791, of the strokes she had received the Monday before, from John Saxton and his three sisters in law, who are now confined in Edinburgh Jail.'
The crime described here appears to have been a case of a neighbourhood dispute getting out of hand. Mary Frazer was allegedly beaten to death after describing one of Saxton's children as 'the pig-wife's daughter'. The author, however, suspects that the root cause of the argument was alcohol, and uses the early part of the report as an opportunity to preach about the dangers of drinking to excess among the lower classes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Just Published, an Account of that horrible and cruel Murder, alleged to have been committed on the body of Mr Thomas Turner, late Landlord of the Ches'shire Tavern, North Bridge, Edinburgh; with the apprehension of Margaret Patrick or Turner, his wife, and Mr William Dodds, High Street, who are implicated in this tragical affair.' The sheet was published on, or around, the 20th of March, 1834, by Forbes & Co. of the Cowgate, Edinburgh.
This broadside contains two suspected crime stories, both of which describe how two women allegedly murdered their husbands. The first story tells of the murder of an Edinburgh landlord, Thomas Turner, whose tempestuous relationship with his wife is used to imply that Mrs Turner and her boyfriend are the culprits. While the opening story is presented as a crime of passion, the second story describes what seems to be a more calculated killing. In this story, the writer tells of how a middle-aged husband living in Blackburn, Lothian, was poisoned by his much younger wife. Cold-hearted quotes allegedly uttered by the murderess are employed to liven up this second story.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This amusing narrative begins: 'An ACCOUNT of / A most Horrid, BLOODY, and Terrible / APPARITION, / Which Lately Appeared in the Parish of SHOTTS / AND / A TRUE AND GENUINE ACCOUNT OF / A DISMAL AND SHOCKING MURDER'. There are no further details attached to this sheet.
A group of men meeting in Shotts, to talk about government reform, were 'accidentally' side-tracked into talking about overthrowing the government. At this point the ghost of Rochefoucault appeared, with the warning that overthrowing the establishment simply created unstable chaos. This probably refers to the French author and moralist François La Rochefoucauld (1613-1680).
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This crime report begins: 'Account of one of the most horrid murders committed by a beggar man ever recorded; the father of the family was out shooting, and while absent, the beggar demanded of the woman the money he knew was in the house; the woman went up a ladder to where it was lying, and pulled it after her, by which she escaped from his bloody hands; he then took the two children, cut off their noses and ears, and then murdered them . . . ' The sheet was published by William Carse, who is listed as working from various addresses in Glasgow between 1820 and 1836.
With no names or dates regarding the 'crime' mentioned on this sheet, it could just be that this broadside is a work of fiction written to satisfy the morbid imagination of the public. However, since the public is generally fascinated by dark events, the chapmen probably had no difficulty in selling it to the public. At the start of the second part of the sheet, the place where this terrible event took place is named as Smolensko. This could be a reference to the town of Smolensk, in Russia. It appears, therefore, that this report might be based on happenings from somewhere far away, although it also contains strong elements that suggest it is a gruesome folk tale.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A particular account of the unlucky affray that happened on Saturday evening at the head of the Canongate, Edinburgh, between two Carters, viz Alexander M'Donald and [Ge]orge Sideserf, who lost his life by a blow from M'Donald. Likewise an account of that horrid and bloody murder, committed on the body of SERJEANT JENKINS, of the Pembrokeshire Cavalry, who was most cruelly stabbed by one Buttler, a private of said regiment, in many places, of which he died in about ten minutes, in great agony.'
Three different cases are described in this broadside. The death of George Sideserf appears to have been a freak accident, caused by a single blow in a fair fight with his companion, McDonald, who was acquitted of any crime. The second is the death of an army sergeant who was stabbed repeatedly by a private in an apparently unprovoked assault. The third case is the breaking news of a murder in Forfar and subsequent absconding of the prime suspect.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full true and particular account of the Trial of, and Sentence upon, the great Gilmerton Criminals, David Dobie and John Thomson, for the Violation, Robbery and Murder of Margaret Paterson, in a way as cruel, barbarous and inhuman, as makes the heart of the most obdurate melt with piety, and the very blood freeze with horror.' The sheet was published by Forbes and Owen of Edinburgh and cost one penny.
The first section of this broadside forms part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to a terrible rape and murder that took place near Gilmerton, by Edinburgh. This newspaper-like broadside brings together the content of four previous broadsides on the same subject, and adds drama to the topic by moving between the courthouse and 'the condemned cell'. The second part of this broadside informs readers about other trials that have been taking place, including another rape trial and some thefts.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.The crime report begins: An Account of the Trial of ROBERT FERGUSON, before the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Inverness, which was opened on the 15th of September, 1812, for the wilful Murder of CAPTAIN CHARLES MONRO, of his Majesty's 42d Regiment, and for which crime he is to be executed at Inverness, on Friday the 30th of October next, and his Body given for Dissection.' It was published by Thomas Duncan of Glasgow.
According to this report, Robert Ferguson denied murder on grounds of self-defence, but the witness statements suggest that after an initial argument with Captain Monro, Ferguson left for a short time and returned to the smithy armed with a knife. Evidently the jury believed that this suggested premeditated aggression, and found Ferguson guilty. The giving of Ferguson's body for dissection was an additional punishment: many believed that unless they were buried in consecrated ground, they could not gain Christian salvation.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A wonderful trial of a Priest for the horrid and cruel murder of a young Lady, (whom he had seduced,) and her Mother, after robbing them of an immense fortune; with an account of other five girls whom he had betrayed all of whom he had privately married; with his address to the judges in mitigation of punishment for his horrid crimes; The trial lasted near four years. TAKEN FROM THE SUN OF SATURDAY THE 5th SEPTEMBER, 1829.' This sheet was published by Carmichael and Graham, Trongate, Glasgow, 1829.
This is a slightly unusual broadside in that it describes a case from Bavaria, that has no particular relevance to Britain or Scotland. The story was taken from the 'Sun', an established national newspaper. It was quite common among broadside publishers to source stories from newspapers that most of their audience could not afford to buy. It is likely that this story was selected because it featured an errant priest. Anti-Catholic polemic was very common in Scotland in the early nineteenth century, and the author's sympathies are implied in the reference to the 'wonderful' trial.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'A full account of the Trial and Sentence of William Pollock, for the barbarous murder of his Wife, who is to be executed at Edinburgh on the 22d March.'
Broadsides covered a wide variety of subject areas, including political and humourous songs, ballads, official government proclamations, public notices, current and historical events, and strange phenomena. The most popular by far, however, were those dealing with crime and punishment. The more gruesome the crime and extreme the punishment, the more popular the broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full True and Particular Account of the discovery of no less than Four Dead Bodies, on Saturday last, in different parts of Edinburgh, under violent suspicion of more than one of them having been murdered, - namely, the body of Alexander Kennedy, fifty-one years of age, found in Hunter's Close, Grassmarket . . .the finding of the body of a young woman in Princes Street, packed up in a box . . . The finding of the body of an infant near the Canal Basin . . . And the finding of the body of another infant in the Canongate Church Yard.' The publisher was Forbes and Owen of 118 High Street, Edinburgh. 
The discovery of four different bodies, in suspicious circumstances, in close proximity to each other, and on the same night, might suggest the work of a multiple murderer. When this report is read more carefully, however, there are no obvious connections between any of the deaths. The cause of Alexander Kennedy's death had not been determined at the time of reporting, but it is likely that he may have died of alcohol poisoning. The young woman, it appears, died or was murdered in Glasgow, and her body was taken to Edinburgh by coach, perhaps for use in a demonstration by an anatomist. The infant deaths may have been the result of high mortality rates among the poor, or were possibly illegitimate babies killed by desperate parents.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Account of that Horrid and Barbarous Murder, which a Baker supposed he had committed on the body of his Wife in Glasgow, on Tuesday last, the 15th March, 1827, and for which he has undergone a public investigation.' This report was sourced from the 'Free Press', 17th March 1827.
Although this broadside leads with the headline of 'Horrid and Barbarous' Murder, it proves to be no such thing. In fact it tells, in a light-hearted manner, of a man, bearing in mind he is a baker, who is physically violent towards his wife, 'on receiving some slight provocation from his wife, determined to knead the soft dough of her breasts and sides, so as to make her better bred'. He is momentarily startled into believing his wife is dead by a group of neighbours in the hope that he will treat her better in the future. A second report is provided at the end of the sheet, telling of a man who offers the use of his parlour for the body of his dead nephew. An ulterior motive is uncovered, however, when the man admits his intention to sell the body to the Anatomists. This would have played on people's very real concerns about body-snatching at this time.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the report continues: 'Who are now lying under Sentence of Death at Ayr, M'Manus for Murder, and Gibson for Assault and Robbery, and are to be executed on the 27th May, 1814.' This crime report takes the form of a separate lamentation from the two condemned prisoners, with both of the lamentations written in ballad format. The opening line of the first lamentation reads: 'You profligate young men, give ear & attend'. The opening line of the second lamentation reads: 'O now, when too late, I perceive my bad choice'.
The ballad-style lamentations contained in this broadside emphasise the importance of redemption from God, following a confession from the condemned prisoner. Both of the lamentations employ dominant religious language and imagery in order to persuade the young to stay on the path of righteousness. In addition to acting as a grim example to others, these lamentations are also intended to show that even murderers can obtain mercy from God, providing they conform to religious doctrine. This fixation with forcing sinners to reach some sort of understanding with God, reveals much about the religious nature of Scottish society during the early nineteenth century.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular ACCOUNT of a most HORRID and INHUMAN MURDER, committed a few days ago, at Sunnybrae, Parish of Saline, in Fife, on the Body of a New Born Infant, by its own Unnatural Mother, who put it on a large Fire, by which it was nearly consumed before Discovered! / The following Paragraph, copied from the "The Edinburgh Observer," this morning, is truly shocking.' This sheet would have cost a penny to purchase.
It was common for broadside producers to crib information from other sources to cut down their costs and keep the information as recent as possible. Although not always attributed, the paragraphs from the 'Edinburgh Observer' have been accredited. Newspapers were a fairly new media and they reported a lot of dry, political information. This was not really of interest to the wider public and newspapers cost a lot of money both to produce and buy. Broadsides filled a niche in the market for sensational news which had a wide appeal. As a result of this wide audience base they were also used as a vehicle of moralisation.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside report begins: 'A Full True and Particular Account of a Cruel and Dreadful MURDER, committed on the Bodies of Two ORPHAN CHILDREN, by Mrs LONG, their Mother-in-law, at Gainsboro', in Linconshire, on the 26th January, 1824, and who also attempted to Cut her own Throat.' This report sold for a penny and was published in Edinburgh by Alexander Turnbull.
This story sounds like a Grimm fairy tale; Mrs Long was a widow caring for her husband's three small children when she became involved with a 'Mr J. B    r' but he would not agree to marry a woman with three children. So Mrs Long resolved to kill the children so that she could be with her lover, locked them in a cellar for three days and eventually murdered two of them. Then, realising what she had done, she attempted to kill herself but was saved.
The report ends by wishing Mrs Long a speedy recovery so she may pay for her crime with her life. The interesting woodcut, depicting two bodies hanging at the scaffold in front of a huge crowd, forecasts her punishment.This crime report begins: 'A full, true and particular Account of that most Horrid and Atrocious murder, committed on the body of a respectable old gentleman of the name of Millie, in the neighbourhood of Cupar, in Fife; together with the apprehension of his man-servant, named Henderson, on suspicion of having perpetrated this barbarous deed, and who is now lodged in Cupar jail.' It was published by Felix O'Neill, and taken from the 'Edinburgh Observer'.
The contents of broadsides were often sourced from established newspapers, which were generally too expensive for the predominantly working-class broadside audience. This report was apparently taken from the 'Edinburgh Observer', a paper which was based at various locations in the Old and New towns of Edinburgh between 1822 and 1845. This murder, we must assume, took place sometime between these dates.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An account of the awful and inhuman Murder of PETER MOFFAT, Carter in Kilsyth, by his own Son, on Tuesday the 2d of April, 1822, who cruelly stabbed his father several times in the belly, so that he died soon after.' It was published by John Muir. The report is not dated.
Illegally-distilled alcohol is cited as the catalyst for the murder of Peter Moffat by his son. In 1822 licensed whisky distilling was subject to extremely high rates of taxation, which meant that most of the whisky produced in Scotland was distilled illicitly. In the early 1820s as many as 14,000 illicit stills were being confiscated every year, and in 1823 new legislation was finally passed that lessened the duty on licensed whisky production. The term 'smuggling' in the report means 'illicit distilling', and is a use of the word specific to Scotland.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'AT Five o'clock this Evening WILLIAM BEGBIE, Porter to the British Linen Company at Leith, was Stabbed and Murdered in Tweedale's Close, leading to the British Linen Company's Office at Edinburgh, and Robbed of a Sealed Parcel, in a Yellow Canvas Bag, containing the following particulars . . .' The publisher was Alexander Smellie of Edinburgh, and the broadside is dated November 13th, 1806.
The murder described in this report was motivated by a robbery that must have appeared extraordinary in its scale and ambition in 1806, when it was carried out. The murderer escaped with almost £4,400, an amount that in 2003 would be worth more than £180,000. It is inconceivable today that cash in such quantity would be carried virtually unguarded between two businesses. The seriousness with which the crime was regarded is reflected in the reward of 500 guineas that was offered to the person who helped to catch the murderer. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An Account of one of the most Barbarous Murders ever heard of, committed by JOHN WILSON, near Dundee, on Friday last, on the Body of his own Wife, in a fit of Jealous Rage, by stabbing her in several places and cutting her throat from ear to ear, with a large Carving Knife; also an Account of the Murder of his own Infant, only eight days old, by cruelly Dashing it on the ground, and afterwards throwing it over a back Window, with the Intrepid manner in which he was seized in the act by a servant Girl.'
A particularly grisly and shocking crime is recounted in this broadside. Although jealousy is suggested as a motive in the title, there is no further mention of this within the account. Unlike many broadsides which often carried a rather pointed moral and religious lesson, this one lacks any references to repentence or religious enlightenment. The only exceptions are found in the final paragraph when Wilson kneels in an 'attitude of prayer' and is then destined to face an 'earthly tribunial' after a failed suicide attempt.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A particular account of a Barbarous, Cruel, and Inhuman / MURDER, / Committee on the Body of William Brown, Cadie in Edinburgh; / by his own wife, Isobell Smith on the night of the 3d Sept. 1792.'
This short text reveals much about eighteenth-century society and its attitudes. The nature of husband-wife relations and the expectations of both parties are detailed in the first paragraph. The distinctions between Scots and English law are drawn further down, with the English charge of high treason being applied to this case. It finally ends on a moralising note, dominated by Satan, asking sinners to repent.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This execution notice begins: 'Particulars of the Life, Trial, Character, and Behaviour of / MARGARET DICKSON, / AGED 22, / Who was executed at Edinburgh, on Monday, Feb 1, 1813 / For the MURDER of her Bastard Child'. The sheet was published by Wilkins of Derby, although the story occurred in Edinburgh. A woodcut of an execution scene has been included above the title.
This story covers the infamous 'hanging' of Margaret Dickson, although the dates are quite confusing. Maggie Dickson, a Musselburgh fishwife, was convicted in Edinburgh in 1728 for murdering her own illegitimate child. The story goes that as her body was on the way to interment after the hanging, the coffin moved and Margaret stepped out, completely unharmed. She could not legally be rehanged and afterwards continued to deny the charges. She eventually had many children and died of old age. It is interesting to note that this case is reported to have occurred in 1813. Presumably the Derby printer was confident that none of his readers would have been able to tell him that it actually took place in the 1720s!
Unfortunately, due to social and religious conventions illegitimate pregnancy during the nineteenth century caused huge problems. Women dealt with this in different ways and most of these means are reported on broadsides. Some women, 'usefully', died after giving birth, whilst others simply brazened their reputation out. There are cases of midwives who performed the gruesome task of smothering babies, whilst some mothers did it themselves. A high percentage of the charges brought against women on these sheets were in relation to child murder, abuse or neglect.This crime report begins: ' An Account of a Murder that was committed in Bridgeton on Sunday morning last, the 16th March 1823. on the body of a young man, named Peter O'Niel, when 5 different wounds were made in his body, & the apprehension of a man charged with the murder.' It was published by Mayne & Co of Glasgow.
This is an early report of sectarian violence in Glasgow. Peter O'Niel was apparently murdered when an argument about religious differences led to one gang challenging another to a fight. Around one hundred years later Bridgeton was demonised as one of the breeding grounds of the gang violence for which Glasgow became notorious in the 1920s. It is a reputation the area has struggled to throw off.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A true and particular account of William and Alexander Thomson, two brothers, who were hanged upon the new drop of Exeter, on Friday, 28th. May 1830 for the murder of their father.' It was published by W. Robertson of Edinburgh, in 1830.
This broadside provides a good opportunity to study some of the recurrent structural features of broadside crime reports. At the top of the page are two striking woodcuts showing a criminal being hanged in front of a huge crowd, and a building that is presumably a courthouse. The report itself has a fairly standard structure, a short introduction, followed by an account of the crime and the trial, and then a description of the execution, with particular emphasis on the convicts' last words and attitudes. At the foot of the page, the printer, finding some further space remaining, has added a short unrelated item.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An Account of the Barbarous and Inhuman Murder of Mrs Franks and her Daughter, with the Wonderful Manner the Murders were discovered.' It was published by T. Robertson in Haddington, East Lothian.
This broadside is one of a number held by the National Library which deal with the murder of Mrs Franks and her daughter. Ultimately Mrs Franks' son-in-law Robert Emond was convicted of the murders, but in this early report on the crime, the author reveals that another Haddington man, John Smith, is under suspicion of this and an earlier murder. Smith's family are described as 'bad characters', and have apparently been found in posession of property belonging to Mrs Franks and to a pedlar murdered six years previously.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of that most Horrid and Barbarous Murder, committed by JAMES FRASER, a chimney-sweeper, in Blackfriars' Wynd, this day, on the body of his own Wife, by striking her on the back of the head with a leaden bullet.' A 'bullet' in this context refers to a piece of apparatus used by a chimney sweep, rather than to a round of ammunition. The broadside was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh.
The most successful broadside producers were often those who were quickest to publish details of a crime. This broadside is a good example of a 'breaking story'. The text makes clear it has been printed on the same day as the murder took place, and qualifying statements such as 'it is believed' and 'it is understood' emphasise the word-of-mouth nature of the news, as well as protecting the publisher's legal position. The remaining space at the bottom of the page is taken up with two unrelated stories, a common feature of broadsides where the main story was too short for a single page.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A true account of that horrible murder that was committed at Kilsyth 12 miles from Glasgow on Saturday, 6th April, 1822; when a young man in a cruel manner murdered his own father, by stabbing him in the belly with a large knife.'
Due to the wide and varied audience which could be reached through the medium of the broadside, they were often used as forums for moral discussion. The men in this report are not named, suggesting that this was not the point of the report. This is further supported by the last two paragraphs on the evils of drink and lack of self-control. This broadside was published  just before temperance movements became very popular during the 1830s, and indicates public feeling leading up to this period.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, this crime report continues: 'Wife of the Miscreant BURKE, who was Strangled to Death by a number of Women at Deanstone Mills about a mile from Doun near Perth.' The sheet it dated the 25th of April, 1829, and was most likely published in Glasgow. A note at the foot of the sheet states it was 'Printed for D. Glen'.
This broadside supposedly tells of the tragic fate that befell Helen McDougall, who was married to the notorious bodysnatcher, William Burke. However, there is also a second report on this sheet, which claims that Burke's accomplice, William Hare, had also been murdered. After fleeing vengeful mobs in Edinburgh and Glasgow, the writer claims, Helen McDougall's new partner found work in a mill in Perth. After her identity became known, however, it seems that a mob from the mill beat her to death. The second story recounts that William Hare, who had turned King's Evidence to incriminate his partner in crime, seemingly met the same violent end as Helen McDougall. Hare actually survived and apparently died in obscurity in London around 1860.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins, 'Horrid and Barbarous MURDER. Committed upon the Body of Mary Thomson, By her sweet-heart David Brown, A FARM SERVANT NEAR CARLISLE, Who Seduced her under promise of Marriage,--and when, on account of her pregnancy, she became urgent on their marriage, he appointed to meet her at Lime Wood, where, in a lonely spot, he stabbed her with a knife, and then threw her into the pond, with a quantity of stones tied into her shawl.   With an account of the wonderful discovery of the body, on which was found the letter of appointment,---and which led to the apprehension of the perpetrator of the dreadful crime.' Published by William Sanderson of Edinburgh.
This broadside dates from 1835-6, when Sanderson had offices in the High Street. It boasts a fine woodcut depicting the murder. Woodcuts would often be reused, but this one appears to have been specially made because the pond is shown. Also interesting is the inclusion, at the bottom, of a ballad about the crime. This offers a more conjectural approach to the telling of the tale.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime account begins: 'The Life, History, and Transaction of Robert Emonds, with his Confession of the manner in which he committed the Murders; also the Life and History of his wife, and Mrs Franks and her daughter.' This sheet was published by Glass, on Monday 15th February [1830]. Two woodcuts are included on this sheet to increase its attractiveness and it would have sold for, unusually, two pence a sheet.
This sheet is quite unusual in its newspaper layout, with illustrations, which may account for its increased cost. The content of the report is also aimed at wringing as much emotion, sympathy and rage out of the reader as possible. This entire sheet is an interesting contrast to the other more standard sheets, held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, on the same case.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Here you have the Melancholy and Penitent Address to the Public, by David Dobie and John Thompson, dated from their Cells in the Calton Jail, where they are now awaiting the execution of their sentence on Wednesday morning'. This account was published by Forbes and Owen of 118 High Street, Edinburgh. A handwritten note of the date, 14th August 1830, has been added.
This story, of the rape and murder of Margaret Paterson when she accepted the offer of a lift home from two carters, caused outrage in Edinburgh. There are many sheets reporting various stages of the trial and various confessions by Dobie and Thompson included in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Many of them are printed by Forbes and Owen, who seemed to show a special interest in the production of sensationalist and crime-orientated sheets.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'A particular account of the Behaviour of James Gilchrist, who was executed at the Cross of Glasgow, on Wednesday the 20th of July, 1808, pursuant to his sentence, for the cruel and barbarous murder of Margaret Brock, his wife, and his body given for dissection.' The printer was Thomas Duncan, probably the same Thomas Duncan who had printing presses in Glasgow.
For the most part, this broadside plays with the reader's emotions by stressing the doubt over Gilchrist's guilt. He continually, and eloquently, protested his innocence, saying in court, 'If I was guilty, a hundred deaths were too little for me; but, I thank the Almighty, am innocent.' Even the judge saw something in his behaviour which one couldn't ignore and admitted he was convicted on circumstantial evidence. The couple had been married for 27 years.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A full, true and particular account of BARNEY M'GUIRE, the bosom companion of the late well known David Haggart, who was executed at Stafford, on Monday the 7th of June 1830 for murder, and his Body given for Dissection.' This sheet was published by William Robertson and would have cost a penny to buy.
Barney McGuire had already been convicted of theft and was awaiting transportation on a 'hulk'. These 'hulks' were ex-warships which were used to alleviate the pressure on prisons. They were crammed full of convicts, until there were enough to make the journey on a more sea-worthy vessel. McGuire's ship sunk thus facilitating his escape and return to crime. McGuire's relationship with Haggart was probably mentioned to make the story more sensational and relevant to the area it was published in. Haggart, a habitual criminal and escapee, was executed in Edinburgh for killing his gaoler by smashing his head with a stone - it was a huge story in Edinburgh at the time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Account of one of the most Shocking Murders ever read of, committed by John M Wil[l]iams, at Midgeville, on the Body of his own Wife, by Stabbing her in several parts of the Body, and cutting her Throat from Ear to Ear; also an acccount of his Murdering his own Infant only Eight days old, by dashing it to the ground, and throwing it over the window, on Tuesday the 8th of January, 1824; likewise an account of the gallant manner in which he was seized by a servant Girl.' This was sourced from the Examiner newspaper and printed in Edinburgh in January 1823 or 1824, priced at one penny.
The case described here is among the most brutal of any in the broadsides held by the National Library of Scotland. The shocking impact it must have had is reflected in the language used in the report, where the scene of the crime is described as 'perhaps without a parallel since the first organization of civil society.' There is doubt over the date of the crime: at the start of the report the year is named as 1824, but at the foot of the page it is named as 1823.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full, true and particular Account of the horrid and cruel murder of James Gough of the Royal Artillery, who was barbarously stoned to death by three men, on Sunday night: Together with the apprehension of the Murderers.' This report was sourced from 'this Day's Observer, Aug 14', and printed by Forbes and Co. of the Cowgate, Edinburgh, most likely between 1832 and 1833.
As the report reveals, the victim of this heinous crime, James Gough, was not actually involved in the altercation which ultimately led to his murder near Ballintyne. The story has been lifted from one of the newspapers of the day, the 'Observer'. This was common practice amongst broadside publishers. With no copyright laws in place, they were at liberty to reproduce reports published elsewhere.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Full, True, and particular account of the apprehension of that unfortunate young woman, on the charge of killing her own child, which was found dead in a coal cellar, on Friday last, in Heward Place ; also an account of her commitment to the Calton Jail, to await her trial for the alleged Mnrder.' It was published by Forbes and Co of Edinburgh. These editions were sourced from the newspapers the 'North Briton' and the 'Caledonian Mercury'.
This sheet displays many typical broadside characteristics. The stories were cribbed from two daily newspapers, who only had a small circulation. There is also a first edition reprinted above the more recent report, as reusing the printing plates would have saved time and money. Stories were also covered in instalments as the action unfolded. Unusually though, this sheet criticizes the authorities' handling of a pregnant woman. It also highlights the mistakes that have been made in the previous print!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An Interesting Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARY McKINNON, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 16th of April next, for the Murder of William Hewat, by Stabbing him in the Breast with a Table Knife, and her Body given for Public Dissection.' This was published in Edinburgh by James McLean and would have cost a penny to purchase.
Between 1800 and 1868, 206 women were publicly hanged in the UK. After this date women were hanged either within the jail or completely in private. In the year 1823, the year Mary McKinnon was executed 3 other women were hung: 2 of them, in Dublin and Berwick, for murder, and 1, in the Isle of Man, for accomplice to murder.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full, correct, and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARY ELDER or SMITH, wife of David Smith, Farmer at Denside, Parish of Monikie, and county of Forfar, who was tried at Edinburgh, on Monday the 19th February 1827, for the wilful Murder of Margaret Warden, a young woman, her own Servant Maid, by Administering Poison to her, on the 5th September last, in consequence of which she Died the third day after; but the libel was found Not Proven.' This broadside was printed for William Robertson.
Although broadsides were largely sold by pedlars who bought them directly from the printer, they could also be purchased from some booksellers and stalls. There were a number of booksellers by the name of William Roberston trading in the early nineteenth century. Unfortunately, there is no way of determining which particular Robertson this broadside was printed on behalf of. Whilst there was a bookseller registered by that name at 47 Broughton Street, Edinburgh (Edinburgh Directory, 1846), there were two others - one in Blairgowrie and one in Aberdeen - with premises closer to Forfar.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of HUGH M'MILLAN, and EUPHEMIA M'MILLAN, this last of whom is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 23d January, 1828, for the Murder of Archibald Campbell, Teacher of Dancing in Edinburgh, by throwing Vitriol in his face, in consequence of which he died in great agony.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
It is unclear from this report whether the McMillans intended to murder Campbell, or whether their aim was to disfigure him. Whatever their intention, Archibald Campbell died from his wounds in Edinburgh's Royal Infirmary two weeks after the assault. Whilst Euphemia McMillan was found guilty and, despite a recommendation of mercy from the jury, sentenced to be executed, her husband, Hugh, was found to be blameless and walked free.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence, of Charles and Margaret M'Mahon, accused of the Murder and Robbery of a Jew on the easter road Leith.'
It is worth highlighting the fact that the McMahons' victim, Alexander Philips, is referred to in the title as 'a Jew'. It is only further into the report that he is mentioned by name. At this time, in a predominantly Presbyterian country such as Scotland, those who followed a different faith were often viewed with suspicion or treated as outsiders. This is suggested here, not only by the need to identify the man primarily by his faith as opposed to his name, but also in the description of one of the witnesses, 'Moses Henry Leiseheim was called, and sworn in the Jewish form, with his hat on his head, and hand upon the old Testament'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A correct account of the hardened and deplorable behaviour of Charles McEwan (now under sentence of death in Edinburgh) since his condemnation ; with a sketch of his life and transactions in the north, since he left Ireland, about ten years ago.' Published in Edinburgh by the booksellers.
There is no date given here. However, we can guess roughly by looking at other broadsides relating to the case in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This broadside must have been printed sometime between McEwan's trial, which was held on March 1st, and the 7th of April, when McEwan was hung at the top of Libberton's Wynd in Edinburgh. A handwritten date at the bottom of the broadside suggests it was published on 27th March, but we cannot be absolutely certain of this.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'LETTER / Directed to Magdalene Munro, North Berwick, from Robert Emond, present prisoner in the Calton Jail, on suspicion of the Murder Mrs Franks and her Daughter.' The letter is dated the 18th November 1829.
Robert Emond was eventually executed for the murder of his wife's sister, Mrs Franks, and her 14-year-old daughter. As this letter was written before Emond's trial, however, he had no knowledge of the fate that awaited him. He is writing to his wife, Magdalene Munro, to reassure her of his innocence and pray that on the day of the trial God will be his advocate. Interestingly, Emond compares his own notoriety with that of Burke and Hare. The trial of William Burke had taken place only one year prior to this letter. Broadsides detailing the trial and execution of Emond are also contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'A true Copy of a Letter sent by the Lady Boghall to her Son Nicol Mushet, Prisoner within the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, for the Murder of his own Wife.' The letter is dated the 21st November 1720. This broadside was printed in Edinburgh by Robert Brown in 1720.
In this letter Mushet's mother urges him to confess and repent for his crimes. She condemns any attempt that will be made by a defence to free her son from a just punishment. The letter is full of references to God's mercy and Lady Boghall's deep concerns for her son if he does not seek divine forgiveness. Her religious fervour is characteristic of that which existed in Scotland at this time. Whilst 'earthly justice' was doled out in the courts, emphasis was placed on preparing oneself for 'divine justice'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report concerning a convicted murderer begins: 'A Copy of a Letter regarding that unfortunate man, John M'Court, who is to be executed on Monday week, for the murder of his wife. Janet M'Lauchlane or M'Court; together with a melancholy Lamentation on the occasion, in which you have a serious warning to both husbands and wives. to beware of Drunkenness and inordinate passions.' This was published in Edinburgh by Forbes & Co.
The tone of broadsides could vary greatly, from brief and sober to highly sensationalist. One of the most notable aspects of this particular example is the moralising tone assumed by its author. Cautionary verses written as if from the point of view of a murderer or victim were not uncommon, and the 'Lamentation' at the foot of this broadside is a good example. The letter reprinted here also reflects much about the moral attitudes of the male-dominated Scotish society in which it originated: Janet McLauchlane is pilloried as a drunkard and child-beater, and it is implied that her husband had little choice but to murder her. Such attitudes are another recurring feature of broadsides.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'The two unfortunate men now under sentence of Death in the Calton Jail, and who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on the 18th of August 1830,and their bodies to be given to Dr. Monro for dissection, for the assault, murder and robbery of Margaret Paterson.'
Part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to a terrible murder that took place near Gilmerton, this broadside provides its readers with ink drawings of the guilty men and their lamentations in verse form. It appears that major crime broadsides followed a regular pattern and style, probably to make as much money out of the story as was possible before interest waned. After the news story of the crime, there would be broadsides reporting the trial and sentence. Following that, the reader would be taken into 'the condemned cell' to learn how the prisoner was bearing up and to hear their lamentation, usually in the form of a ballad. The story of the crime would end with reports of the execution.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'LAMENTATION OF MARY BRAID, Who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Monday the 17th day of February'. After a futher description of the crime, there follow two verses, one bemoaning recent crimes in Scotland, the other apparently a lamentation by the condemned woman, which begins, 'Oh, all who hear of my sad state / Oh, pity my poor case' This broadside was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh, in 1834.
Broadsides featuring cautionary verses based on recent crimes were not uncommon. Broadside authors and publishers predated some modern newspaper editors in assuming the role of moral instructor to their readership. It is highly improbable that the 'Lamentation of Mary Braid' was the work of the condemned woman, and far more likely that the poem was written by the same anonymous broadside author who composed the accompanying verses. This broadside emphasises its cautionary message with a macabre woodcut depicting a woman drowning a child.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts ? the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This execution notice begins: 'Presently lying under Sentence of Death in the Calton-Hill Jail, and who is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Monday the 3d day of August next'. It was published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh.
There are other reports on this case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection, suggesting that the story enjoyed popularity at the time. According to the report Banks was convicted, of killing her husband, during July 1835. She bought poison and, with the help of her daughter, administered it to Mr Banks, who it is suggested had beat her. The page then concludes with a moralising poem.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This crime report begins: 'MURDER! Committed on the body of MRS DEVON, who was found in her own house in the Gorbals this afternoon, Tuesday April 6th, 1824, with her throat cut, cold and lifeless, and presenting a spectacle too shocking for description.' The publisher was John Muir of Glasgow. It appears that the title of the broadside was originally 'HORRIFIC MURDER', but the top part of the sheet has been torn off.
A particularly nasty crime, apparently of a domestic nature, is described in this report. Broadside reports often sympathised with the male in crimes of violence against women, but in this instance it is stressed that Mrs Devon was 'sober and industrious' and was unfortunate in her choice of husband, who is suspected of the murder. The reference to Mrs Devon's children returning from the cotton mill suggests that they were employed as textile workers, a common occupation for children in the nineteenth century.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Account of a barbarous, & inhuman murder, committed by the Revd Mr. Carroll, Parish Priest of Ballymore, on the body of a child of 3 years old, also an account of his brutal usage of other woemen' 2 of whom are not expected to live.' The sheet was published by R. Husband, Printer, 15 Princes Street, Glasgow. The Scottish Book Trade Index, available online through the National Library of Scotland's website, lists Robert Husband at 15 Prince's Street from 1825 to 1828.
This broadside tells of an exorcism in Ballymore that went tragically wrong, because it was carried out by an insane priest who was later committed to an asylum. As a result of his violent actions, one infant died and another two were left on the verge of death. Perhaps the most disturbing feature of this case is the unquestioning way in which the accompanying mob assisted the priest in his mad delusions. Indeed, this broadside does at least provide today's audience with a revealing glimpse of the superstitious nature of Irish society at this time (c. 1825), plus it also demonstrates the power of the Catholic Church.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins, 'Copy of the Melancholy and Sorrowful LAMENTATION of ROBERT TENNANT, the young man who is now confined in the Jail of Stirling, and who is to be Executed there on the morning of Wednesday th 2d of October, 1833, for the bloody Murder of William Peddie, an old man, about 70 years of age, on the high road between Beancross and Kerse Toll, parish of Falkirk, on the evening of the 3d of August last.' Published in Edinburgh by Menzies, this broadside, which boasts two fine woodcuts and a poem about the event, was sold for one penny.
Peddie and Tennant were labourers who, on the day of the murder, were working together breaking stones for the road. Mr Borthwick, the Superintendent, had ordered Tennant off the job because his drinking and poor timekeeping made him a liability. Peddie, the foreman, wanted to keep Tennant on but was forced to back down. At midday, Peddie had woken Tennant from a drunken sleep at the side of the road and told him the news. A row ensued which 'ended in the murder of the poor old man'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'An account of the wonderful discovery of the murderer of William Begbie, Porter to the British Linen Company's Bank, who was murdered in November, 1806, in the Bank Close, Nether Bow, and Robbed of nearly £5,000, with the whole particulars how the Murderer was discovered.' Unfortunately, no publication details have been included.
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes at least two other broadsides relating to this case, one of which details the character of the alleged murderer, James Moffat. An eye-witness account is provided here by 'a sailor', placing James Moffat 'or Mackcoull' in the area on the night Begbie was murdered. Whilst it is possible that Moffat did in fact murder Begbie, it is also possible that he was wrongly accused. After he was sentenced to be executed, 14 years after the crime had been committed, Moffat mysteriously died in his cell in the Calton Jail.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of a bloody and barbarous murder which was committed on the body of Jannet Stewart daughter of John Stewart farmer in the parish of Scoon in Perthshire by Duncan M'Intyre his servant, who cut her throat from ear to ear she being with child to him, who was apprehended and sent to prison.'
The most notable thing about this report is the density of biblical language employed by the author. As well as containing quotations direct from the Bible, the text contains recognisably biblical images such as 'the earth being once again wet with human blood'. It is an appropriate tone for a report warning against the moral decline of the nation. The final, portentous quotation foresees the death penalty for the accused: 'Vengeance is mine, and I will repay.'
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A True and distinct / ACCOUNT, / of the Murder of James Campbel of Lawers.'
Campbel was murdered by his cousin Patrick Campbel, Baron of Braemukly, in a fight which was the result of serious drinking. James attacked Patrick, who defended himself with his gun and shot his cousin through the heart. He then escaped to Edinburgh undetected. The author of this text, however, does not hide the fact that he is using this incident for moral education. It is also interesting to note that the 'salm' is quoted in Gaelic. There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail arguments, resulting in death, between 'gentlemen'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.The crime report begins: A full and particular Account of a most horrid Murder, committed on the Body of a young Woman, at Ballinlick, in the district of Strathbraan, and parish of Little Dunkelk, supposed to have been perpetrated by her Sweetheart, a young man of the Name of Gow, who has been since apprehended, and committed to Perth Jail.' The broadside also contains a 'Description of Damietta'. It was printed by Thomas Duncan of Glasgow in 1799.
The details of this murder are fairly scant, so the author opts to devote most of this report to cautioning women to 'conduct themselves in cases of courtship with proper circumspection'. This theme was common in broadsides reporting the murder of a woman. The implication was that men could not be held fully responsible if their violent passions were aroused by a woman's reckless or immoral behaviour.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.A man, named only as Stewart, was found on the High Street, bleeding profusely, having been flung from a window three stories high. He died the next day in hospital.
The room the man fell from was rented by a woman named Charlotte Dundas, and also present were Elizabeth and Margaret Henderson (Stewart's partner), Catherine Hay and Archibald Allan. No reason is given for the fight and all present were remitted. None of those involved were aged much older than 20.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An Account of two Horrid MURDERS / The one committed on a Skipper in Dublin / And the other a Young Woman in the County of Chesire.' This sheet was printed in Edinburgh in 1717.
Much as other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection have proven that news could and did travel the country quickly, just as often stories from other areas were fabricated. Here names and circumstances are given, but they do seem a little dubious. Often broadside publishers felt themselves to be society's guardians and as such would try and convey moral instruction through their texts.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Account of the most shocking murders ever read of, committed by John Matw. Williams, at Milledge, on the body of his own Wife, by stabbing her in several parts of the body and cutting her throat from ear to ear ; also an account of his murdering his own infant only eight days old, by dashing it on the ground, and throwing it over the window, on Tuesday the 15th of July, 1823 ' likewise an account of the gallant manner in which he was seized by his servant girl.' This report was sourced from the Glasgow 'Free Press Newspaper' and was published by the Glasgow printer, W. Carse.
The Glasgow 'Free Press Newspaper' was founded in 1823 and was published until 1835. At this time, however, newspapers were very expensive to produce thus they were expensive to buy and they information they conveyed was not always of an entertaining nature. As a result, broadside publishers copied the more interesting stories onto sheets, often embellishing the narrative to improve the story's appeal further, and sold them for just a penny. The sheet was intended to be read aloud amongst a large audience and as a result the information reached an astonishingly large part of the population.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'An Account of a most Horrid Murder, supposed to be commited on the body of Mr MARK DOW, a respectab   Shoemaker in Leith Street, Edinburgh, on Wednesday Evening the . . ., or early on Thursday morning, the 11th January, 1827, who was found dead nearly naked, at the bottom of a stair, north west corner of Bank Street, with a large wound on h s head.' This report was published by William Henry, and was sold for a penny. The author states that the story was sourced from the 'Edinburgh Observer' newspaper.
It is interesting to note the mistakes in this text. There are large spaces and 'committed' has been misspelt. In the haste of getting the story to press, mistakes were fairly common. The immediacy is highlighted further by the fact that this story is taken from another source. A broadside would have been a cheaper option than buying a newspaper, and this one also borrows some kudos from the 'Edinburgh Observer', which apparently offers the 'only authentic notification yet published of this melancholy affair'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. These occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An Account of a most Horrid Murder, supposed to be commited on the body of Mr MARK DOW, a respectable Shoemaker in Leith Street, Edinburgh, on Wednesday Evening the 10th, or early on Thursday morning, the 11th January, 1827, who was found dead nearly naked, at the bottom of a stair, north west corner of Bank Street, with a large wound on his head.' This account is 'copied from the "Edinburgh Observer", Newspaper of this day, which is the only authentic notification yet published of this melancholy affair'. The broadsheet seen here was printed in Edinburgh for William Henry, on 12 January 1827.
By far the most popular broadsides were those covering crime. The more heinous the crime, the more copies sold. Typically, for the more sensational malefactions, a sequence of broadsides were produced detailing the crime, later discoveries or particulars, the trial, last dying speeches, and the execution. Also included in the National Library of Scotland's collection is a broadside covering the trial and sentence of Allan Grant, James Kenny Stewart, Mary Muirhead and Isabella Kerr or Gray, all four of whom were accused of the murder of Mark Dow.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This murder report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of that cold, bloody and diabolical murder committed on the body of Mr M'Nab's post boy, Innkeeper and Post Master in Cupar of Fife who was barbarously murdered a few yards from his Masters house on Thursday last.' It was published in Edinburgh by Forbes & Co.
Broadsides found much of their market among the working classes, who could not afford heavily-taxed newspapers. One way in which their publishers could source stories quickly for their cheap, single-sheet reports was to lift from the larger newspapers, as in this example: 'We extract the following article from the Courant Newspaper...'. 'Courant' was not an unusual name for a newspaper in eighteenth and nineteenth century Scotland, and there were papers entitled the 'Elgin Courant', the 'Glasgow Courant' and the 'Edinburgh Courant'. The latter is the most likely source of this story.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A particular Account of a most horrid Instance of Child-murder, attended with Circumstances of the greatest Barbarity, which was discovered at Thorney Bank on Wednesday last, when Catherine Weir, alias M'Quarry, the Mother, was apprehended and committed to the Tolbooth of Glasgow on suspicion of having perpetrated the Murder.' The broadside was published by T. Duncan of the Saltmarket in Glasgow. 
The report on this sheet describes the discovery of the body of a newborn child in a ditch, by a young boy. At the time the report was written the case had not gone to trial, but the child's mother was suspected of having committed the murder. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, it was not uncommon for the mothers of illegitimate babies to be driven to murdering them. Illegitimacy carried a huge social stigma, and as well as the public shame endured by women who had given birth to illegitimate children, the mothers often had no financial means of supporting a child.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A true and farther particular Account of the whole transactions of these Monsters of Iniquity, the (supposed) Violaters and Murderers of that unfortunate woman Margaret Paterson. / The following melancholy and fatal accident is copied from this day's (Tuesday's Observer.).' This sheet was published, in Edinburgh, by Felix O'Neill.
This sheet not only reports the details of David Dobie and John Thomson's rape and murder of Margaret Paterson but also carries a story about the death of two slaters when the ladder they were working on collapsed. The 'Gilmerton Murder' as the case of Margaret Paterson's death as been named, was a huge sensation at the time, if the number of extant broadsides are to be believed. As a result of its popular topic, gruesome horror, there are many different accounts of this case in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'AWFUL BEGINNING OF THE NEW YEAR. / A full, true and particular Account of the most Horrid and Barbarous Murder of Mrs Calderhead, wife of Alexander Calderhead, Potato Dealer, Dunbar Street, in Fountainbridge . . . . . ' This sheet was published by the Edinburgh printers Forbes and Owen and was partly sourced from the 'Courant'.
The first story on this sheet illustrates the mechanisms of broadside publication. Firstly, this story was covered by other publishers and many of their sheets are held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. The first edition of the story is re-included on the sheet because of the expense of printing and shows how news was covered in instalments. Finally, parts of the report are cribbed from another newspaper - a common feature of the time. The second story, tried before James Patison, concerns a complaint over taxi fares! This story is fairly revealing about early nineteenth-century night life.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This confession begins: 'Margaret Dickson's penetential confession / What former Friend may ease troubled Thought / When Mid-night Darkness comprehends me round, / And before the dread Tribunal brought, / Call'd by the last and awful Trumpet's Sound.'
Margaret Dickson's 'crime' was to conceal her stillborn and illegitimate baby. was convicted of murdering her own child, and as a result forfeited her life.  This  was a well-reported case at the time. Whilst being transported for burial after her execution in Edinburgh's Grassmarket, Dickson was miraculously jolted awake. The court decided that as she was already legally dead she could not be hung again! She had more children and lived for another 40 years.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice begins: 'This unhappy man, who was to have been executed this morning, has received a respite of his fatal sentence for the period of ten days'. It was published in Edinburgh, on Monday 6th April, 1840, by Sanderson.
Although not directly stated in the text, it appears that Wemyss, an umbrella maker, was convicted of killing his wife but had since the conviction twice appealed for a reinvestigation. The new theory revealed in this report hinges on his wife's drinking problem and the suggestion is that she suffered a brain haemorrhage or that both of them were involved in a drunken brawl. The lack of previous detail and the immediacy of the new theory report, illustrates the broadside's role as the informative and popular entertainment of its day. Wemyss was executed on 16 April 1840.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'The Latest Account of interesting particulars relative to these most Iniquitous and Horrid Transactions, which lately took place near Gilmerton, in the county of Edinburgh. (Extracted from the North Briton newspaper of this day, Wednesday 5th May 1830.)' This sheet was published by John Craig of Edinburgh.
The most popular broadsides by far were those that recounted crime stories - the darker the crime the better - and this is another broadside from that genre. This broadside, quoting directly from a newspaper report, forms part of a sequence telling readers about the murder of a young woman near Gilmerton, by Edinburgh. It is quite a lengthy report, as the investigators try to jigsaw together what exactly happened to the woman, while the two accused men each try to implicate the other in the crime. Given that the entire article is surrounded by inverted commas, one wonders about copyright issues since broadsides often lifted stories straight from newspapers. It would appear that the two dashes near the end of the report is an early form of censorship.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'The Latest Account of interesting particulars relative to these most Iniquitous and Horrid Transactions, which lately took place near Gilmerton, in the County of Edinburgh. / (Extracted from the North Briton Newspaper of this day, Wednesday, 5th May 1830).' This sheet was published by John Craig.
This broadside contains details of the events which led to the rape, robbery and murder of Margaret Paterson by two carters, David Dobie and John Thomson in 1803. The information was extracted from a newspaper, not an uncommon practice due to the lack of copyright laws. John Craig the commissioner, eventually had a newspaper office in Lauriston Street, Edinburgh during the 1840s and 50s. There are other broadsides held by the National Library of Scotland which cover this case.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This murder report begins: 'An Account of these two Murders, the one committed, on Tuesday evening last, the 5th September, 1826, on the Body of Mrs ALEXANDER, residing at the foot of Leith Wynd, Edinburgh, by her own Husband; and the other, last night, Monday the 11th September, 1826, on the Body of a young man of the name of BAIN, a Hatter, in the West Port, who was killed on the spot.' This broadside is dated the 12th September, 1826.
The very fact this sheet was printed the morning after the murder of the 11th of September, illustrates how quickly broadsides followed the events they were reporting. In this instance, both stories have been sourced from the 'Edinburgh Observer'. With no copyright law to restrict such practices, broadside producers often lifted the most newsworthy and sensational stories from that day's newspaper and reproduced them as broadsides. Within a matter of hours they hit the streets usually priced at one penny. More affordable than the heavily-taxed newspapers of the day, they reached a vast audience.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This murder report begins: 'AN ACCOUNT OF A Horriod and Bloody Mnrder, committed in Kellso, by William Bolamgall, Shoe-Maker in Kellso. Upon Sir John Hay, Quarter-master to the Royal Gray's, and Andrew Gray, his Father's Apprentce, and Jannet Stewart their Servant Maid.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh in 1720.
The murders committed by William Bolamgall appear to have been motiveless. All three victims were living under the same roof as Bolamgall - that of his father. In this broadside his murderous behaviour is blamed on the devil, 'and the Devil who had thus Prompt him to act the first Wickedness, Temps him to a Second'. It is also suggested that it was only through 'GOD'S Providence' that the entire household was not murdered. In the eighteenth century, Scotland was a highly religious society in which people's lives were dominated by the Church. This is very much reflected in the street literature of the time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Horrible Account of a Man who kept a public-house in the Highlands who murdered and Robbed almost every person that stopped in his house, giving an account of a man who stopped in his house, with a curious discovery of the landlord.' The report is apparently written by Sandy McToysh, although no date or other publication details are provided.
Unusually, this sheet is printed in two columns, very close together, with a thin black line dividing them. It tells the story of an inn-keeper near Inverness, who was in the habit of murdering his guests for their valuables. He was only caught after his wife stopped him killing one such lodger, Andrew Johnston. Undetterred and determined to get his hands on Johnson's £200, the inn-keeper attempted to have the man arrested for stealing. However, he was not to know that Johnston was of reputable character. When the inn was searched and valuables were found alongside human bones, the landlord could do nothing but confess to having murdered around 15 of his customers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that most Murderous Outrage that was committed on the body of George McDonald, a flax-dresser belonging to Dundee, by a person of the name of Robert Demster, a plasterer and slater from Cupar.' The broadside is priced at one penny.
Unusually, the victim in this instance was still alive at the time the report was written, albeit 'in a very dangerous state, with very little prospect of his recovery'. Broadsides recounting murders or murderous intent were by far and away the most popular amongst the readership. The more shocking and gruesome the crime, the more copies were sold. This particular broadside deliberately downplays the survival of the victim by revealing 'Murderous Outrage'. The intention was to make the report more appealing to the public. The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes a broadside detailing the apprehension of Robert Demster or Dempster.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A full, true and particular account of a cruel, barbarous and inhuman murder committed on the body of Margaret Rankin daughter of John Rankin in Polichorkin in Argyleshire, of which Archibald McAllum, by whom she was big with child is suspected because he has fled from his father's house at Ardnoe.' The crime occurred on the 12th August 1792.
This text, although revealing many of the facts surrounding this attack, concentrates more on the behaviour and their consequences of those involved and uses it as a vehicle to warn other young lovers. This text is unusual because Margaret is portrayed in a good light and remains relatively blameless for her condition. This could, however, be because she was the victim of this brutal attack. Perhaps modern press coverage is not the first to manipulate its audience's emotions.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A / DECLARATION / OF / Mr. ROBERT IRVING, / Who Murdered John and Alexander Gordon's, / Edinburgh, 29 April, 1717.'
Not only does the style of the English make this story a little hard to follow, but the major contradiction in the narrative also leads to some confusion. It is stated that this text was declared by Robert Irving and that he is now brought to trial for it. Further down the page, however, it is also reported that, after committing the two murders, Irving slit his own throat and threw himself in the water. Irving's motives for his actions are not revealed at any point either. It would be interesting to know what contemporary readers thought of this account!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: '[Dubline May 17th 1717.] / A Full and True / ACCOUNT / OF / A most Horrid, Barbarous, and Bloody / MURTHER / Committed by Owen Brady a Porter, Living in White Fryer's Lane, who most babarously Murther'd his own two Children, this present Friday being May the 17th, 1717.' This sheet was printed in Dublin, and reprinted in Edinburgh at the foot of Horse Wynd.
Society at this time believed the Devil influenced their daily lives and as a result his work is emphasised here. This belief was eventually championed by James VI and I of Great Britain (1566-1625), himself. He wrote various tracts on the Devil and witchcraft and suffered from the misapprehension that witches were trying to assassinate him. With these ideas filtering from the top, down, and such high profile support, society found it easy to believe in the power of the Devil.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of WILLIAM POLLOCK, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 22d March, 1826, for the awful Murder of his Wife, on the 11th November last, at Gifford's Park, and his Body to be given to Dr Munro for Dissection.' It was printed in Edinburgh for a bookseller of unknown identity and priced at one penny
Another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection also deals directly with Pollock's trial. Whilst both sheets furnish the reader with the sequence of events following the death or murder, this particular broadside also gives a brief history of the Pollocks' family life. If enough interest was shown in a particular case, further broadsides often followed detailing the execution and the miscreant's last speech or dying words.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Fourth Edition, containing New and Interesting Particulars of that most heart-rending and cruel Rape, Robbery, and Murder, of Margaret Paterson, at Gutterdike near Gilmerton, on the night of Saturday, the 24th of April, 1830, -- together with a particular and accurate Account of the unheard of manner in which the Monsters occasioned the death of their victim, to the everlasting Disgrace of civilised society, -- and also an accurate Account and Description of the two Men who are charged with committing this truly Fearful Crime, and of the Precognition taking against them by the Sheriff of the County, -- and likewise the pious conduct of the ill fated, Murdered Margaret Paterson, on her Death-Bed, a few minutes before she expired, -- being a True and Faithful account of this Dreadful Affair, never any where published except in this paper.'
Running to a fourth edition, this exclusive broadside tells the tragic of Margaret Paterson, who was raped, robbed and murdered by two men near Gilmerton, Edinburgh. This broadside certainly goes into great detail concerning both the crime and the three protagonists. Broadsides that told of recent crimes - the more heinous the crime the better - sold numerous copies, as demonstrated by the fact that this broadside is a fourth edition. Exclusivity is another theme of this broadside, with the writer emphasising, right from the outset, that the public can only read about the story in this particular broadside. This sheet is part of a series of broadsides on this particular subject, with the others available for viewing at The National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full, True, and Particular Account of the apprehension of three men for that most horrid Murder committed upon the Body of Helen MacKenzie, in Rosshire?a murder which has excited so much horror throughout all Scotland, that the Lord Advocate sent Mr Stoddart, Advocate, into Ross-shire, for the express purpose of trying to discover the murderers.' This sheet was published by Forbes and Owen of the 'First Stair in the Close', the High Street, Edinburgh.
Two other stories are carried on this sheet: an account of Captain Wilson's murder of the seaman John Smith on his ship 'Armenia', and the funeral of King Radama of Madagascar. These may seem like an odd selection of texts but broadside publishers reported anything of public interest knowing that they would reach a wide audience. The last story, especially, appears odd, but Britain had close diplomatic and cultural links with Madagascar, after its military involvement in establishing the state.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'An account of the trial of Allan Grant, James Kenny Stewart, Mary Muirhead and Isabella Kerr or Gray, accused of the Murder and Robbery of Mark Dow Shoemaker, on the 10th of Jan. last in Bank Street.'
The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes a broadside giving a detailed account of Dow's murder and robbery. Published a day or two after the incident, the names of the suspects were not included. This broadside, however, reports on the trial and sentencing of the four accused. With no date attached to this sheet, it is difficult to ascertain the time lapse between the crime being committed and the apprehension of the culprits.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JAMES DALRYMPLE, for the Horrid and Cruel Murder of DONALD FRASER, Labourer, on Sunday the 23rd February last, on the road near Linlithgow, by Shooting him, and who is to be Executed on Wednesday the 3d June, 1840.' The sheet was published by Menzies of Edinburgh.
James Dalrymple and Donald Fraser were labourers, and Dalrymple had shot Fraser on the Linlithgow to Queensferry road, near the Burgh-muir toll-bar. The reason for the attack is not given, although it appears, from witnesses, that there was no doubt that Dalrymple was the culprit. Although found guilty, the jury strongly recommended mercy. The plea was not heard and Dalrymple was sentenced to be executed the following month. It is possible that his sentence was commuted later as there is no record of the execution.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Account of the Trial and Sentence of WILLIAM DIVAN, before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Monday the 14th day of June, 1824, accused of Murdering his own Wife in the Gorbals of Glasgow, on the 6th of April last? also an account of the sentence of Samuel McMenemy, who was found guilty false hood, fraud and wilful imposition?' The publisher was William Carse of Glasgow, and the publication date was 14th June 1824.
The motivation for William Divan's crime is left vague in the account of his trial. It is merely suggested that while his wife worked hard for the benefit of the family, he was only interested in getting her earnings 'for the purpose of enabling him to join in company with his acquaintance', in other words, drinking. Divan is sentenced to death. In the other case on this sheet, Samuel McMenemy is sentenced to twelve months hard labour at Bridewell house of correction.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ANDREW EWART, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 19th March next, for Murder, and his Body to be given for Public Dissection.'
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes another, similar, broadside recounting the trial and sentence of Andrew Ewart. Whilst most of the information appears to be the same on both sheets, this particular one describes in more detail the events immediately leading up to the murder of Henry Pennycook (or Pennycuick). On watch in Liberton churchyard, Ewart fatally wounded his friend, Pennycook, after mistaking him for a body-snatcher.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'An account of the trial and Sentence of Andrew Ewart, for the murder of Henry Pennycook, in the Church yard of Libberton on the 4th December last and who is to be executed at Edinburgh on the 19th day of March next.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a number of other broadsides detailing the trial and sentence of Andrew Ewart. It is possible the tragic circumstances surrounding the death of Henry Pennycook (or Pennycuick) sparked a lot of interest amongst the broadside readership. Ewart appears to have mistaken his friend, Pennycook, for a body-snatcher, whilst on watch in a Liberton churchyard, and fired a fatal shot.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of James Glen for the Barbarous Murder of his own child 2 years old, and who is to be executed on the 12th day of December next.'
Also included in the National Library of Scotland's collection are two further broadsides covering this rather grisly case. Both claim to provide an account of Glen's execution, including his behaviour on the scaffold. The very fact that a further broadside was published regarding Glen's crime, indicates the high level of interest in this case. The more gruesome and shocking the crime being reported, the more copies sold. Broadside printers often cashed in on this popularity by producing a series of sheets covering different aspects of the same crime.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A true Narrative of the Transactions of ISABELLA PERSTON Of Cambuslang, who is accused of Child-Murder, and now a Prisoner in the Goal of this city. THE public are ever anxious to hear of the character of any unhappy wretch, who, by a wicked course of life, becomes amenable to the law . . .' The broadside is not dated and carries no publication details.
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the murder of newborn children by their mothers was probably more common than it is today. There was a huge social stigma attached to illegitimacy that drove some women to kill rather than face the public disgrace that she, and the child, would undoubtedly endure. This case in this broadside is more unusual, in that the accused women was already known to have had and raised several illegitimate children. However, there were other social complications. Many unmarried women were simply in no financial position to raise a child, and post-natal depression, which was not acknowledged until the twentieth century, may, in retrospect, have also been a contributory factor.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'How now! Ye secret black and midnight fiends! / What's this ye do? A deed without a name! -- Shakespeare. High Court of Justiciary. -- July 12, 1830.' Printed by Forbes and Owen. The opening quotation to this broadside is taken from 'Macbeth'.
Part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to a terrible murder that took place near Gilmerton, this third edition broadside moves between the courtroom and 'the condemned cell'. After providing details of the crime, the broadside then considers the demeanour of the two accused carters - John Thomson and David Dobie - as they enter 'the condemned cell'. Following a summary from The Lord Justice Clerk that often threatens to turn into a hellfire sermon, the prisoners are told that their bodies will be spirited away immediately after execution for dissection in an anatomy class. It would appear that sending corpses straight from the scaffold to an anatomy class was an old tradition.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'THE following VERSES, relative to the melancholy situation of the unfortunate WILLIAM POLLOCK, now under Sentence of Death in the Jail of Edinburgh, for the Murder of his own Wife . . . were composed by the author, one morning in bed, after having dreamed he had really heard the unhappy man making his Lamentation'.
William Pollock was found guilty of murdering his wife and sentenced to be hanged on the 22nd March, 1826. Although he vehemently protested his innocence throughout the trial, and continued to do so after sentence was passed, Pollock was never offered a reprieve. Two days before the execution was to take place, Pollock committed suicide in his prison cell. A large number of broadsides were published following Pollock's suicide, including this imaginary lamentation.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.Following on from the title, the report continues: 'A beautiful Young Lady, of 16 years of age, who was seduced from her home in the County of Limerick, by a Gentleman, who afterwards bribed his servant, Stephen Sullivan, to murder her, for which they were both Executed; the whole account as confessed by Sullivan at the place of execution.' This sheet was printed in 1819 by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside tells of an elopement that went disastrously wrong. The elopement was between a wealthy and accomplished girl from the county of Limerick, and a 'gentleman' apparently from Dublin. Tragically, the girl ended up being murdered by the gentleman's servant, with both master and servant being executed for the terrible crime. With its emphasis on female accomplishments, gentlemanly behaviour and servants, the broadside reveals much about upper-class Irish society during the early nineteenth century. Certainly, the fact that the gentleman ordered his servant to kill the girl and then blamed his subordinate for committing the crime, suggests much about a lack of responsibility on the part of the 'gentleman'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of WILLIAM ALLAN, who was tried at Edinburgh, on Tuesday the 27th of December, 1825, for the Barbarous Murder and Robbery of Alexander McKay, on the 17th September last, and who is to be Executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 10th February, 1826, and his body to be delivered over to the Professor of Anatomy of that city for Dissection.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh for William Henry and priced at one penny.
Broadsides were printed rather crudely on low quality paper. This was to ensure production costs were kept to a minimum. Priced cheaply at one penny or occasionally a half penny, they had a vast readership amongst the working classes. Whilst the cost to the reader was low, the sheer quantities printed earned healthy profits for those involved in their production. Sales of a broadside detailing a particularly sensational or gruesome murder often ran into the thousands.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of Wm. Alexander, and Janet Blackwood, or Martin, who were tried before the High Court of Justiciary, on Monday 29th January 1827, for Murder, and Assault, on the person of Catherine Smith, wife of the said Wm. Alexander, on 6th September last, who died in the Infirmary on the 8th, September, in consequence.' This broadside was printed for William Henry and cost one penny.
Despite the severity of this crime, and the number of witnesses who willingly came forward, neither Alexander nor Blackwood were sentenced to be executed. Alexander was found guilty of culpable homicide and sentenced to transportation for 14 years, and a not proven verdict was returned for Blackwood. In Scots law the not proven verdict effectively produces the same result as not guilty: the accused walks free and can never be tried again for the same crime. Not proven, however, leaves an element of doubt, suggesting that the accused is considered guilty by the court, but not beyond reasonable doubt.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A particular account of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT SCOTT, the Edinburgh Carrier to Earlstoun, who is to be Executed at the spot where he committed the horrid deed, on Wednesday, 29th October, 1823, for the barbarous murder of James Aitchison, cooper, and Robert Sim, horse-dealer, Greenlaw, on the road near Earlston, and who, after he had effected his horrid design, cut off their noses and put them in their mouths, with an account of his dreadful behaviour before the Court ; his body is to be sent to Edinburgh for dissection.' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
The National Library of Scotland's collection includes at least four other broadsides detailing this case. A particularly heinous crime, it would have attracted a lot of attention from the public. Special mention is given at the end of this broadside to the alleged mutilation of the victims' faces, along with the hope that, 'for the honour of Scotland', the account has been exaggerated. Shocking or unusual crimes could prove very lucrative for broadside printers as people rushed to read every grisly detail.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'THE WHOLE / Trial, Confession and Sentence, / OF / Mr. Robert Irvine Chaplain to Baillie Gordon, who was this Day Execute at the Green-side betwixt Leith and Edinburgh, for Murdering of John and Alexander Gordons. / Broughton-Tollbooth April 30th. 1717.'
There are other sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection covering this case. It is curious to note that paragraphs of this sheet match word for word paragraphs contained in other reports. This plagiarism and reprinting is one of the features of broadside production. Copyright law was not what it is today and there was a need for speedy production. It also made sound business sense for printers to use the typesetting they had already completed, by reprinting that part of the story, if the case was ongoing.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A coarect account of the Trial and Sentence of Peter Moffat, for the Murder of his Father, at Kilsyth, on the 2d April 1822, and who is to be Executed at Stirling, on Friday the 28th July, 1826.'
Another broadside in the National Library of Scotland's collection details Moffat's confession and incarceration. Although the first name of the accused differs from this sheet, with him referred to as Thomas, they are most likely the same person. Such inaccuracies were common and merely help to illustrate the lackadaisical approach to reporting that existed. As competition for sales was intense, priority was given to producing sheets for sale as quickly as possible. Inevitably, this was often to the detriment of the facts.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.