This report begins: 'Official acconnt of the Death of Bonaparte, who departed this life on Saturday the 5th day of May last, in the Isle of St. Helena with a particular account of the Causes of his Death. Taken from this Morning's London Paper.' Although no publication date has been included, this broadside was most likely printed the same year as Bonaparte's demise - 1821.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection includes numerous reports and accounts written during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1792-1815). Of particular interest are the many different angles that were adopted by broadside producers: from Nelson's heroic and successful, but ultimately tragic, stand at the Battle of Trafalgar (1805), to ballads detailing the emotions felt by those mothers, lovers and daughters left at home.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A full, true, and particular Account / OF ALL / THE DOGS, / WHICH MEET EVERY TUESDAY, AT / THE GRAND TOWN-COUNCIL KENNEL, / With a full description of all their qualities, as exhibited at the / PROVOST HUNT, / On TUESDAY, 29th November 1842'.
There are many broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which express discount with the town councils of the cities around Scotland. Often the Provost himself and his conduct are also attacked. This sheet was published in the same year as Queen Victoria's visit to Scotland, which did not always go as smoothly as planned. Perhaps these situations added to the discontent which is plainly delineated here.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This lamentation begins: 'Alas! Our Kirk has got a Scoup, / Upon her Covenanted Doup, / I fear she run the Gauntlet Loup, / For all her Leagues.' A note under the title reads, 'Licenced and Entered according to Order.' It was published by John Morphew near Stationer's Hall, London, in 1711.
A large number of the broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection chart the political and religious tensions that existed in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Britain. In particular, there are numerous accounts detailing the political wranglings between the Tory and Whig parties. In this mock lamentation, the Whigs announce 'We preach the things we do not practise, / The guilded Bait that dims our Eyes, / Is Pride and Self'!
Whig was first used as an abusive term to describe those who opposed the religious reforms of King Charles II, and by 1679 was the name given to those who opposed the succession of James II - a staunch Catholic. In political life it became synonymous with those who advocated parliamentary power over the crown, also known as liberals or radicals, as opposed to the Torys who believed in the supreme power of the crown.This satire begins: 'Sir, 'mong your Gifts your Candour's not the least, / In that you thus profess you are a Beast: / Albanian Animal shall be thy Name / From hence forth in the Registers of Fame.' There are no publication details available for this broadside.
This satire appears to be a criticism of Scotland's docility in allowing her self-seeking politicians to agree to the Union of 1707. To understand the satire, the reader has to decode the central symbol of the satire: 'the Albanian Animal'. As Alba is the Gaelic name for Scotland, the adjective 'Albanian' means Scottish - so the phrase translates as 'the Scottish Animal'. It could be, however, that even in the eighteenth-century, the country of Albania embodied connotations of backwardness and ignorance. Classically erudite in tone and style, the satire closes with a spectacular - though foreboding - image of 'the Albanian Animal' jumping from the 'Gallow-tree'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'WHEN foes are o'ercome, we preserve them from slaughter, / To be Hewers of Wood, and Drawers of Water: / Now, altho' to draw Water is not very good, / Yet we all should rejoice to be Hewers of wood.' A note at the foot of this sheet states that it was 'Reprinted from the Dublin Copy'.
This poem was written in 1724 by the Dean of Saint Patrick's, better known as Jonathan Swift. Writing under the pseudonym of M.B. Drapier, Swift's poem is an attack on the British government's decision to award a contract to the Englishman, William Wood, to mint some copper halfpennies for use in Ireland - hence the list of forge-related occupations in the poem's title. It was obvious that Wood had bribed the British government to receive this contract, and there was also a fear that these new coins would destroy the monetary system in Ireland. Swift's 'Drapier Letters' are considered important because he argues the point that Ireland should control its own affairs.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'HOW stronge's thy Sense! How charming are thy Strains! / Who by soft Numbers moves our Northern Swains : / In gently Treating, with mild Words, a Peer, / Whom for unbyass'd Truth we all admire.'
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection also includes 'A Scots Answer to a British Vision' and Daniel Defoe's 'A Reply to the Scots Answer to a British Vision'. The 'Second Defence' seen here was written in response to Defoe's 'Reply'. All three were written in 1706, the year before the union of the Scottish and English parliaments. Defoe, who spent the early years of the eighteenth century in Scotland, was a great supporter of the union and did much to promote it. As can be seen by this rebuttal, however, his efforts were often treated with contempt by the Scottish people.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Come, ye Electors, ane an' a', / Baith rich an' poor, and great an' sma', / And welcome hame wi' great ec'at / Your weel-kent friend, Frank Jeffrey.' This ballad was to be sung to the tune 'Whistle o'er the Lave o't'. The broadside was published by Sanderson of 243 High Street, Edinburgh.
Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850) a lawyer by vocation, was also an active Whig politician, socialite and and founder of the 'Edinburgh Review', a hugely successful quarterly magazine. Jeffrey was the manager of the Parliamentary Reform Bill for Scotland, and this ballad praises his support for the Bill and urges its audience to vote for Jeffrey in the forthcoming General Election. Jeffrey was returned as Member of Parliament for Edinburgh in December 1832, six months after the Reform Bill was passed. Without the passing of the Bill, many of Jeffrey's supporters may not have been entitled to vote.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political ballad begins: 'Come all Reformers sing again, / For what reformer can refrain, / On hearing the heart-string strain, / Huzza for honest Aytoun?' A note below the title states that it should be sung to the tune of 'The Arethusa', which is a traditional Scottish song dating from around 1730. The sheet was published by Waugh of Edinburgh, and the date of publication was probably around 1833.
This celebratory broadside has a satirical companion in another political sheet entitled, 'Huzza! for Provost Spittal!!!', which is also included in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Jamie Aytoun (1797-1881) and Sir James Spittal (1769-1842) were rival candidates for the position of Lord Provost of Edinburgh. Aytoun never succeeded in his fight, but Spittal was Provost from 1833-37. Spittal Street, located in the Tollcross area of the city, was named in tribute to him.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This speech begins: 'AT the Battle of Falkirk, Robert Bruce (afterwards K. Robert 1st.) Son to Robert Bruce, Lord of Mannia &c: being then under English Influence'. There follows a commentary by Buchanan, and two short fables translated from Aesop.
This broadside, ostensibly posing as a historical report, is in fact anti-English propaganda against the proposed Act of Union between the Scots and English parliaments. This was eventually passed in 1707. Daniel Defoe and John Hamilton, Baron Belhaven, were especially vocal, Defoe on the unionist side. The National Library of Scotland holds their broadside publications.
This tactic of using the story of Wallace and his fight against the English to highlight current injustices was employed again in recent years. The emotive influence of the film 'Braveheart' (1995), which included this speech Wallace made in 1298 at the Battle of Falkirk, was exploited by the Scottish National Party. They signed up a great many supporters by positioning themselves outside cinemas when emotionally charged filmgoers were leaving.This political notice begins: 'The public are informed that a telegram was received this morning, at three o'clock in the afternoon, by a friend of the / YOUNG MAN / who has been missing from the neighbourhood of the High Street'. The sheet was published by L. MacArtney of the Poet's Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee.
This sheet begins as a public notice but quickly turns into a list of veiled political comments, mainly about Communists, the French and the Suez Canal. The Poet's Box in Dundee was a prolific ballad publisher but this sheet illustrates the more serious side of their business. It also suggests the level of political awareness and interest prevalent in Scotland's towns. This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: Sir John is a dangerous man - / He was born silly towns to beguile - / Beware, oh beware, if you can, / Of the magic that lurks in his smile'. An epistle is, here, a verse composition written in the form of a letter. There are no publication details for this sheet.
This ballad appears to be a satirical critique of a politician called Sir John Dudley, who is hoping that Edinburgh will provide him with a safe parliamentary seat. The writer's references to 'Brougham and Grey' suggest that the ballad was written some time during the 1830s, as Henry Brougham (1778-1868) served in Earl Grey's (1764-1845) Whig government during this era. The writer spotlights Dudley's protean talent for transforming his politics from Whig to Radical, depending on whatever it takes to be elected. This is why the writer warns Edinburgh not to be beguiled by his French tricolour banner, which is merely a flag of political convenience.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This satirical broadside begins: 'Let Banter cease, and Poetasters yield, / Since fam'd De Foe is Master of the Field. / What none can comprehend, he understands.'
The English-born novelist, secret servant and novelist Daniel Defoe (1660-1731) was highly vocal in his support for the Act of Union (1707) between the English and Scottish parliaments, and wrote many pamphlets on the subject. This piece, written in a sarcastic tone of mock admiration, has been attributed to Baron Belhaven, John Hamilton (1656-1708). It was probably written around 1706.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'BOBBY J______N. / There's young Jamie Aytoun that wins in Milne's Court, / He's a man o' the regular radical sort, / Has fourscore ten pounders, and fourscore too - / An' young Jamie Aytoun's the member for you.' It was to be sung to the tune 'Auld Rob Morris'. The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the place or date of publication.
The ballad on this broadside is structured as a dialogue between 'Bobby J_____n' and 'Auld Reekie', and its subject is James Aytoun (1797-1881) of Kirkcaldy, who was a Radical candidate for Stirling in the 1841 General Election. Auld Reekie is a nickname for the city of Edinburgh, and the verses spoken by 'Auld Reekie', which are highly critical of Aytoun's politics and his looks, are probably meant to represent the majority opinion in Edinburgh. Aytoun was ultimately unsuccessful in his campaign.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice continues: 'In a few days will be published, a full Report of the Speeches of Mr Ross, and of Mr D.D. Cargill, Mr Canning, and of Mr Gibson'. The sheet ends with the cry: 'ROSS for Ever! / AND / Confusion to all Mob Orators!!'. There are no further details attached to this sheet.
There are many political broadsides contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection. Most of them, however, focus on larger general elections, whereas this sheet was published for the election of the town baillie and constable. If the other sheets in the collection, published in the Arbroath area, are any indication then this post was very important to the towns people and was off great interest to the local community.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This political pamphlet begins: 'A is for Aytoun, a radical true; / B is for Bottom, who looks very blue; / C is for Campbell, just fresh from his journey; / D is for Dudley, that dish'd the attorney . . .' Although there are no publication details available for this sheet, the subject matter suggests it was most likely published in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
This light-hearted broadside offers readers an entertaining A-Z guide of prospective candidates who stood for election in Edinburgh during the 1830s. Given the writer's obvious sympathies for the candidate, Jamie Aytoun, (1797-1881) it seems likely that the broadside was written from the viewpoint of the Radical Party. The writer succeeds in making entries for the awkward alphabetical letters, V, X and Z, by poking fun at rival candidates and even the voters themselves. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides (many of which are satirical) that report on political contests in Edinburgh during the 1830s.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The political ballad begins: 'Come join in my chorus, true Aytounites all, / And sing of our triumph and SPITTAL'S down-fall, / For altho' to the Whigs it be wormwood and gall, / Yet the draper must certainly go to the wall'. A note below the heading states that it should be sung to the tune of 'Which Nobody Can Deny', which is an alternative title for 'For He's A Jolly Good Fellow'. The sheet was published by Grant of Edinburgh, and the date of publication was probably some time between 1833 and 1837.
This ballad refers to the downfall of Sir James Spittal, who was Provost of Edinburgh from 1833-37. Aytoun (1797-1881) never succeeded in his fight to become Provost. The writer's emphasis on ridiculing Spittal because he worked as a silk merchant reveals much about the writer's - and society's - prejudices. For as the nouveau riche acquired more power and influence in early nineteenth century society, they were frequently attacked for trying to take over the running of the country. This is why Spittal is described as a 'pert little Draper' who should return to his 'shop'.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This political text begins: 'This is a curious Article on Socialism, extracted from the Glasgow Weekly Dispatch, and the reader cannot help but be amused at the death of the Founder of that System'. This sheet was reprinted for J. MacCulloch.
This text is vitriolic about Owen and his socialist doctrines. It is a piece of bitter satire, spelling out the author's problems with Owen through imagining Owen's death as he 'vomited up his plans of Social Wickedness'. The author sees socialism as an outrage against God and, at the end, wishes all its supporters dead.
Owen's enduring fame is due to his socialist legacy of his village of New Lanark, Scotland. Here working hours were cut, good housing was provided and the importance of education and recreation was stressed to the community. Although never taken particularly seriously, Owen enjoyed the friendship and patronage of a wide base of royalty, reformers, statesmen, politicians and activists.This election manifesto begins: 'He will support a true, thorough, safe and substantial REFORM of every abuse in Church and State, at home and abroad. / 2. He will unflinchingly advocate a strict and unsparing RETRENCHMENT of all superfluous expenditure, and the speediest possible abolition of useless places, pensions and sinecures, whether in the Court of Exchequer or anywhere else.' The sheet is not dated and does not carry the name of the publisher or the place of publication
This is an early example of the sort of pre-electoral literature that is still distributed by candidates in their constituencies today. The sheet shown here is far less glossy than its modern equivalents, but it nevertheless works on the same principle, listing a number of promises that the candidate claims he will honour if elected. The candidate behind this sheet, Mr Blair appears to have been standing on an independent ticket rather than as a representative of any party.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'COME brother Conservatives, fill up your glasses, / And start to your feet with a hearty hurra! / Tho' no more we may draw our broadswords on the asses, / Our tricks and our cunning will win us the day.' The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the date or place of publication, but it does note that the song was 'Sung, with great applause, at the last dinner given by the Edinburgh Sour Milks'.
James Aytoun (1797-1881) of Kirkcaldy, a manufacturer, stood as a Radical candidate for Stirling during the 1841 General Election. The satirical ballad on this broadside implies that Aytoun's Radicalism was a fraud, and that he was at heart a Conservative who would eventually return to his Conservative roots. As evidence for this, the ballad suggests that Aytoun was one of those who helped suppress the 1820 'Radical War', specifically in Bonnymuir, where members of a band at a political march were arrested.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An ACCOUNT of a most Horrid, BLOODY, and Terrible APPARITION, Which lately Appeared in the Parish of SHOTTS; AND A TRUE AND GENUINE ACCOUNT OF A DISMAL AND SHOCKING MURDER, In the very Words expressed by the GHOST itself, as faithfully taken down by a Most Holy Person, who was present at the whole.' The broadside carries no publication details.
The story on this broadside, which describes the ghost of a murdered French Revolutionary appearing at a radical meeting in Shotts, appears to have been intended as a parable warning against political agitation in Scotland.  The ghost of 'Rochefoucault' appears to be an inaccurate representation of the Duke de la Rochfoucauld-Liancourt (1747-1827), a democratic reformer who nevertheless remained loyal to Louis XVI and who was not murdered. This inaccuracy may have been due to falsified or confused reporting at the time of the Revolution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside is a hybrid of a public address by the Lord Advocate and a ballad. Signed with the initials, 'W.G.', the public address on the sheet praises the 'independent spirit' of Edinburgh's menfolk, while urging them to read 'the Edinburgh Review'. The ballad is called 'Francis Jeffrey' and begins: 'OH! JEFFREY! welcome to your town / She prays an' greets you as a boon'. A note below the song's title states that it should be sung to the tune of 'Johnny Cope'. Although no publication details are included on the sheet, the subject matter suggests that it was probably published around the mid-1830s.
The ballad contained in this broadside is dedicated to Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850), who founded 'The Edinburgh Review' in 1802, and edited the publication from 1803 until 1829. Nicknamed 'The Blue and the Yellow' in honour of the Whig Party, 'The Edinburgh Review' was a highly influential publication and set the standard for other literary periodicals. Indeed, Jeffrey's Edinburgh flat, at 18 Buccleuch Place, was a hive of literary activity. When the Whigs were returned to power, Jeffrey was appointed Lord Advocate in 1830 (hence the public address from him), then was elected as MP for Edinburgh in 1832, finally becoming Lord Jeffrey in 1834.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'You Catholics all both great and small, / I hope you will draw near, / For very mournful is the news / That I have brought you here; / It's of a dreadful massacre / That has took place near Conpore, / By which four holy clergymen / Were martyred in their gore.' Unfortunately, the name of the printer and date of publication have not been included on this sheet.
This broadside refers to an incident that happened in Bulgaria, probably during the 1870s, involving the brutal murder of four Catholic clergymen. This was a hot political issue throughout Europe - the Bulgarian struggle against their Turkish overlords attracted sympathy. Tales of Turkish atrocities got the 'Great Powers' embroiled in the region. Whilst broadsides generally reported on events that occurred a lot closer to home, the story of the four Catholics murdered in Bulgaria must have sparked interest. The international nature of this broadside would have made it compelling and unusual reading.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political broadside begins: 'Q. Are you a candidate for a seat in the Town Council? / A. Yes, I am. / Q. To what party do you belong? / A. I am a Liberal. / Q. Will you have the goodness to explain what you mean by that / term? / A. I mean true liberality, which consist in excluding from all power or influence every person whose political sentiments differs in the slightest / degree from my own.' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
Written in the question and answer style of a religious catechism, this political broadside is very similar to the interviews performed by today's journalists on prevaricating politicians.  All the readers know about the interviewee is that he is a Liberal who is hoping to be elected to the Town Council. Although the identities of the protagonists remain anonymous, the questions themselves reveal much about what may have been important to the electorate during this era - especially the questions regarding religion. Although it appears to be a straightforward interview session, there are some points which hint at a satirical and slightly subversive tone on the writer's part.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The title continues: '(TAKEN FROM THE ORIGINAL) / Signed by Themselves, / AND MAY BE SEEN BY APPLYING TO THE PROPER AUTHORITY. / TUNE - There's nae Luck about this House.'  Verse 1 begins: 'NOW clerk count o'er the Council Board'. It was published by J. Booth, Junior, of Charlotte Street, Aberdeen.
The tune to this song also goes by the name, 'Washing Day', and was originally made popular by Allan Ramsay of Ayr as a whisky toast. (The tune was probably written by Jean Adams and has also been attributed to William Mickle in the 18th century). John Booth is thought to have worked in Aberdeen mainly as a newspaper journalist, between 1806 and 1826. There were periods, however, where he worked for himself, and certainly the topic of this piece would have appealed to a contemporary journalist. Here, comments are being passed, and aspersions cast, on the city's councillors and burgessmen.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This political broadside begins: 'Ques. Who is it that modestly proposed himself as the Successor of the Lord Advocate Jeffrey in the Representation of Edinburgh? - / Ans. Jack the Coachmaker! / Ques. Is there any human creature who honestly believes Jack to be in all or even in any respect qualified to represent the modern Athens in the Commons House of Parliament? - / Ans. Yes, one; Jack the Coachmaker.' Although there are no publication details for this sheet, its subject matter suggests it was published during the 1830s.
Written in the question and answer format of a catechism, this highly erudite sheet is a character assassination of a man who hoped to succeed Lord Francis Jeffrey (1773-1850) as MP for Edinburgh. Unfortunately, however, the proper name of this electoral candidate is not named, as the author merely refers to him throughout as 'Jack the Coachmaker'. No doubt this nickname would have identified him to people living at the time, thus highlighting the ephemeral nature of broadsides. The author ridicules 'Jack' for previously portraying himself as a Whig and Reformer, only to switch to the Tory Party if it improved his chances of being elected. The 'Poet of Liberty' referred to is Lord Byron (1788-1824).
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This satirical piece begins: 'IN all the Lists of the Prisoners taken in or after the Battle of Culloden, I observe That none of those taken were wounded. Now, as in every Battle there are a great many wounded, and left in the Field of Battle a Prey to the Conquerors, who generally take as much Care of their wounded Enemies, as of their own wounded Men, I wish you would inform me what became of the Rebels---------that were left wounded in that Field at that Battle.' The letter is signed with the pseudonym Tom Curious. Below it is a reply from a man calling himself 'A true Modern WHIG'. It was published around 1746.
The response is shocking and inflammatory. It is almost certainly a spoof, intended to highlight the national corruption at the time of the Battle of Culloden. The Whig believes that all Jacobites should be killed, including their women who are 'not past the Age of Breeding'. He goes on to say that the livestock and crops should have been seized, the aim being to 'starve those rebellious Wretches in a Year or two'. At the bottom is a list of 'The Noblemen, Gentlemen, and others, attained for their Accession to the Rebellion'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Just Published, a Correct Copy of that Singular and Extraordinary Dialogue that took place between a young Lady and a Merchant on the Bridge, who was threatened by the Lady with ruin and destruction, if he did not vote for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmonth.' The publisher was A. Dunbar of Edinburgh. The sheet is not dated.
Intimidation and bribery of voters were serious concerns at the time of local and national elections in Britain until at least 1872, when a secret ballot was introduced as part of the voting process. This broadside reproduces an alleged attempt by a young woman of Tory sympathies, to intimidate an Edinburgh merchant into voting for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmonth. John Learmonth was a prominent merchant, owner of the Dean Estate and Lord Provost of Edinburgh at the start of the 1830s. 'Lord Ramsay' may be a reference to George Ramsay, 9th Earl of Dalhousie (1770-1838). An interesting aspect of this report is the active, almost aggressive political role taken by the woman, despite the fact women had no voting rights at the time.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'Ye Whig Reformers all draw near, / To Aytoun's trash ne'er lend an ear'. The song should be sung to the tune 'The Arethusa' and was printed by Waugh of Edinburgh.
The song refers to the battle for the position of Edinburgh's Lord Provost, between James Aytoun (1797-1881) and Sir James Spittal, (1769-1842) a silk merchant, which took place during 1833. Spittal won and was Lord Provost from 1833 to 1837. Aytoun never succeeded. This broadside must have been quite popular, as the National Library of Scotland's collection holds further sheets which are exactly the same but for the top which carries the imprint 'Second Edition'. That must have been an easy earner for the printer Waugh!
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This report begins: 'A Full and Correct Account of the PUBLIC MEETING of the INHABITANTS of EDINBURGH, in Rose Street Church, on Saturday last, to vote an address to his Majesty on the late dissolution of Parliament, and to petition the Magistrates to elect the Right Hon. Francis Jeffrey, Lord Advocate, as member for the City, - with the speeches delivered on the occasion. - Also an account of Mr Jeffrey's joyous reception in Edinburgh.' It was published by the hawkers in Edinburgh. It does not carry a publication date.
The report on this broadside describes a public meeting convened to raise support for Lord Francis Jeffery's campaign to become Whig Member of Parliament for Edinburgh. This suggests that the broadside dates from 1832, when Jeffrey was returned as Edinburgh's MP. Previously he had represented Perth. Jeffery (1773-1850) was by vocation a lawyer but is perhaps better known for being the co-founder (with Henry Brougham) of the 'Edinburgh Review', a hugely influential quarterly magazine which ran from 1802 until 1929. Jeffrey's justified reputation as a ruthless editor and critic brought him into conflict with some of the leading authors of the day.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political broadside begins: 'The last Speech, Confession, and crying Supplication of Sir TURNABOUT TOPBOOTS, and the rest of that Whig Gang who were exhibited this day, on a Scaffold which had been erected for them in the Grassmarket of Edinburgh.' The sheet was published in Edinburgh on the 21st of November, 1834.
This satirical broadside is a darkly amusing critique of the failure of the Whig Party to fulfil their election promises. The bitterly disillusioned writer gives free rein to his wild imagination, as he envisages local members of the Whig Party, led by the wonderfully named Sir Turnabout Topboots, standing on the scaffold, prior to their execution. Judging by other political broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection, it seems that the Edinburgh public became disheartened by the Whig Party's failure to implement the reforms they had promised in their election manifesto.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This quirky broadside begins: 'I am perswaded, That the World is turn'd up side down, and Lies or false Reports more Credited than Truth. I could not but a little strange at your last Letter concerning States Affairs.' The 'I' of the first line has been illuminated with two thistles at either side. The letter, apparently sent from London, was written on March 23rd, 1718. It was reprinted in this form in Edinburgh in the same year.
This letter reads more like a letter to the editor of a newspaper than a communication from one friend to another. It seems as though the friend in Scotland had fed his acquaintance with outlandish stories, which the Englishman had since discovered to be false. It is unclear why the letter was printed for public consumption, but it makes for quite lively reading.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Two British Wits Conspir'd, / A Scottish Dream to Answer, / Both equally Inspir'd / With Nonsence, Punns and Banter; / Sence smil'd to see / Them so agree / In Bluntness and Stupidite.' Although there are no publication details given for this sheet, it would have been published in late 1706 or early 1707, when the negotiations leading up to the Act of Union were taking place.
This broadside would have formed part of the propaganda war that took place during the run-up to the union between the Scottish and English parliaments in 1707. The main protagonists in this literary struggle to win over public opinion were Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun (1653-1716) and Daniel Defoe (1660-1731). As a government spy, Defoe was already familiar with the art of disguise and writing biased political pamphlets. In the broadside, 'A Reply to the Scots Answer to the British Vision', Defore responds to the sheet displayed here. The National Library of Scotland's collection includes a related sequence of polemical broadsides that offer contrasting viewpoints on the Act of Union of 1707.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political notice begins: 'A Full, True and particular Account of the Surprising and Much Reted News just received by the this Evenings London Mail, of the Resignation of EARL GREY and the Present Ministery'. This article was then copied from the 'Caledonian Mercury' of the 29th April 1833, on to this broadside.
Charles Grey was born to General Sir Charles Grey on the 13th March 1764, at the family's home of Fallodon. After studying at Winchester and King's College, Cambridge he was returned as Northumberland's M.P. in 1784, and so was launched into the political limelight. He strongly opposed the Tory leader William Pitt for most of his career and was the leading advocate of the 1832 Reform Act passed during his time as Prime Minister (1830-4). He eventually resigned as Prime Minister, after the Whig malt and window-tax bill was defeated.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This broadside begins: 'A Poem Upon the most potent Prince James D[uk]e of Hamilton; anent the Union, of Great Britain.' The first verse reads: 'ALL You Brave Noble Men give Ear, / A Declaration You shall hear, / Of a Brave Noble Man of Fame, / His Stile it is Duke Hamiltoun.' Written in ink at the bottom of the sheet is 'Edinburgh 1707': the year the Act of Union was signed.
This poem is referring to James Hamilton or Douglas, 4th Duke of Hamilton (1658-1712), who succeeded to the title after his mother, Ann, Duchess of Hamilton, stood down in 1698. He is best remembered for his opposition to the union of the parliaments and for representing the Jacobites in the Scottish Parliament. His critics, of which there are many, believe that his inaction and indecisiveness greatly damaged the Jacobite cause.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'HAIL noble Lord of Parts immense, / Mighty in Language and profound in Sense; / How shall an humble Muse thy Glory / And in her meaner Songs attempt thy Praise.'
The English-born writer Daniel Defoe (1660-1731) is known to have written 'A Reply to the Scots Answer to the British Vision', which was published in Edinburgh in 1706 - the year before the union of the parliaments. Defoe was sent to Scotland on government business in the early 1700s, and found to his dismay that a large number of Scots failed to understand the move towards unification. Whether this was a warranted view or a rather patronising one, Defoe did devote a large amount of time to understanding Scottish politics and culture. In 1706, after a brief period of absence, Defoe returned to Scotland and set up an Edinburgh-based newspaper entitled 'Postman13'. The paper was pro-unification and aimed to shed some light on the subject. Strangely, perhaps, there is no mention of Defoe on this particular broadside.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice begins: 'AN anonymous PLACARD having been stuck up in various places, stating that the REFORM BILL had been read a third time and passed in the House of Lords, without any opposition . . .' It was published by D. Fair of Galashiels, probably in 1832.
This broadside appears to have been printed on behalf of the Earl of Haddington and the Duke of Buccleuch, in reaction to an earlier notice that stated that these noblemen had opposed the passing of the Reform Bill. The notice shown here points out that the men did not oppose the Bill in principle, but rather opposed the disproportionately small parliamentary representation it granted Scotland. The broadside accuses the previous notice of being a deliberate attempt to prejudice the newly expanded electorate against the 'highly talented young candidate', who was probably Lord John Douglas Scott (1809-1860).
The Parliamentary Reform Bill of 1832 increased the number of Scottish MPs from 45 to 53, and extended the vote in the burghs to households with an annual value of £10. This enlarged the voting base in Britain from 6 per cent of the population to 12 per cent, and inevitably led to competition between politicians and parties to win the support of the new voters. Among the tools used by the opposing sides were broadsides which argued the merits of the respective candidates. These were probably the forerunners of modern election campaign literature.This broadside begins: 'FELLOW CITIZENS! AND FELLOW COUNTRYMEN! We rejoice to unite with you in mutual congratulations over the happy event which has this day brought us together. Scotland is now, for the first time, in a situation which realises the aspirations of the best and most enlightened of her sons, - SHE IS FREE!' It includes a decorative border and an illustration of Britannia along with the words 'BRITANNIA, based on the Commons, throwing off the Trammels of Corruption'. According to a note at the bottom of the sheet, it was 'Printed and Distributed in the Grand Reform Jubilee Procession, by the Printers of Edinburgh, August 10, 1832.'
This sheet was published in the same year as the 1832 Reform Bill, which increased the number of Scottish M.P.s from 45 to 53, and extended the vote in the burghs to households with an annual value of £10. Whilst the electorate was significantly increased as a result, with around one in seven men receiving the vote, political power still remained within the hands of the landed classes. This fact is clearly highlighted in this broadside: 'Though few of our own number possess the franchise, we feel assured, that our rights are safe under the protection of those who enjoy it'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'Before the THISTLE with the rose Twin'd, / Our Patriots about it thus Divin'd, / Two Potts, the one of Brass, the Other of Lame, / Were carried by the Violence of a Stream.' The famous Latin phrase, 'Timeo danaos & dona ferentes', is listed below the title. This expression translates as 'I fear the Greeks, even when they bring gifts', and is used to indicate distrust when a traditional foe is showing signs of kindness. This saying originates from the legend concerning the Wooden Horse at Troy. A handwritten note at the bottom of the sheet states that it was published in 1706.
Written as a prophetic warning against the imminent Act of Union of 1707, this broadside would have been one of the many sheets published in the propaganda war that took place just prior to the union of the Scottish and English parliaments. Many famous polemicists, including Andrew Fletcher of Saltoun (1653-1716) and Daniel Defoe (1660-1731), wrote political pamphlets on this subject. With its classical and biblical allusions, plus its Latin phrases, this poem is lofty and erudite in tone. Still further, its call for independence and resistance to the English king, preludes the literary territory that Robert Burns was later to write about to such great effect, in such famous poems as 'Such a Parcel of Rogues in a Nation!'
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'PLAIN ANSWERS TO PLAIN QUESTIONS IN A Dialogue BETWEEN JOHN BULL AND BONAPARTE, Met Half-Seas over between Dover and Calais.' The sheet was published by Chalmers, Ray & Co. The place of publication is not printed on the sheet, but a later handwritten annotation beneath the publisher's name reads: '(Dundee)'. There is no date supplied.
This is an imagined interview between 'John Bull', representing the voice of British reason, and Napoleon Bonaparte, the French Army General and, eventually, emperor of France. Although the broadside is not dated, its references to the career of Bonaparte confirm that it was certainly published after March 1799, when Bonaparte ordered the massacre of more than 4000 prisoners at Jaffa in Syria. The interview focuses on Bonaparte's intention to invade Britain, a subject which was a real cause for concern in Britain despite the scorn expressed by 'John Bull' in this broadside. Bonaparte's attempt to invade Britain was thwarted in 1805 by Admiral Nelson at the Battle of Trafalgar.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The text beneath the title continues: 'Written, on it being understood that MR AYTOUN had been advised by the Gentlemen of his Committee to start for LEITH, as well as EDINBURGH, in order that his return to Parilament might be secured for one or other of these places'. The ballad begins: 'Come join in my song, / All people who long / To see Pensions cut off with a sweep . . .' The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor the place or date of publication.
James Aytoun (1797-1881), a native of Kirkcaldy, was a manufacturer and a supporter of Chartism. In 1841 he stood as a Radical parliamentary candidate for Stirling. This ballad is very supportive of Aytoun and was probably composed by someone with Radical sympathies. Although he is not a particularly notable figure in Scottish political history, Aytoun does appear in the Scottish National Portrait Gallery, in a collection of calotypes taken by David Octavius Hill and Robert Adamson between 1843 and 1847.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'Hey, little Frosty, will ye no resign / Your office high, an power sae fine? / Or do you fear the cash to tine, / That ye stay sae land i' yer corner?'
This song admirably illustrates the role of broadsides in the entertainment of their society. This text is obviously satirising and commenting on a political leader's conduct and behaviour in his public role. Unfortunately, not enough information is given to clarify the person and the conduct for modern readers. This suggests that this situation and information would have been instantly recognisable to the original reader and pertinent to his or her daily life.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This account continues: 'Received in Glasgow, a few days ago, from one of the Persons engaged in the unfortunate affair of Bonnymuir, giving a particular account of the situation of the whole of the people who were transported for being concerned on that unhappy occasion; with a description of that Colony.'
This letter was sent by Thomas McCulloch from Sydney, Australia, on the 21 October 1821 to his unnamed wife in Glasgow. McCulloch was one of the nineteen men sentenced to transportation for attempting an armed insurrection at Bonnymuir, near Bonnybridge. They were part of a larger movement of 'radicals' who were campaigning for political representation and rights amongst the more skilled labourers, such as weavers and smiths. This letter was a further attempt at political agitation, with its descriptions of a 'better land' and reminders of the men who lost their liberty for political freedom.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This political report begins: 'THE County of Roxburgh was already tired with the foolish, bombastic, and unmeaning effusions of sciolistic and shallow witted politicians; the walls had been covered with Placards containing recitals and re-recitals of circumstances which had no existence, save in the imaginations of their authors . . .' The author is named as 'A LOOKER ON' and the sheet is dated 5th September 1832. There are no further publication details given. 'Sciolistic', which appears in the first sentence, is a word referring to someone with unjustified pretensions to knowledge.
This report accuses a 'Letter fo a fellow Elector' of prematurely celebrating the success of Captain George Elliot (1784-1863) ahead of the 1832 General Election, the first election after the passing of the Reform Bill. The National Library of Scotland hold other broadsides supporting Elliot's campaign in the Roxburghshire constituency. Elliot was a Whig, and the son of Gilbert Elliot, 2nd Earl of Minto, who was Whig MP for Roxburghshire from 1812-14. He was captain of H.M.S. Victory from 1827-1832. His Tory opponent, one of the 'Two competitors in the field of Roxburgh' mentioned here, was Lord John Douglas Scott, (1809-1860). Elliot was victorious on this occasion but was defeated by Scott in 1835.
The Parliamentary Reform Bill of 1832 increased the number of Scottish MPs from 45 to 53, and extended the vote in the burghs to households with an annual value of £10. This enlarged the voting base in Britain from 6 per cent of the population to 12 per cent, and inevitably led to competition between politicians and parties to win the support of the new voters. Among the tools used by the opposing sides were broadsides which argued the merits of the respective candidates. These were probably the forerunners of modern election campaign literature.This notice begins: 'Query 1. If the speaker on the 23rd of February, 1784, lives in the neighbouring city, and pays no stent [rent] to the town, and no tax to the poor, and does not own the authority of the Provost, nor even the power of a town-officer, to seize a delinquent in a neighbouring city, what right had he to speak in that meeting?' Although no publication details are included on the sheet, the first query includes the date, the 23rd of February, 1784.
This light-hearted broadside appears to refer to some obscure incident that took place during a meeting in Glasgow in 1784. The reference in 'Query 10' to the India bill appears to allude to Prime Minister William Pitt's (1759-1806) India Act of 1784. Likewise, the mentioning of 'the Fox' could be a reference to Charles James Fox (1749-1806), who was a Whig statesman. The India Act of 1784 was passed to regulate the affairs of the East India Company in India, and placed the Company under the under a Board of Control. It appears that this broadside notice is asking the citizens of Glasgow for their opinions on this matter.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This public notice begins: 'IT appears that LORD JOHN SCOTT'S friends are giving it out that he is a REFORMER! with the view it is supposed of catching a few stray Votes. But this won?t do. It is not yet forgotten that Lord JOHN attended a Meeting of Freeholders, &c. at JEDBURGH. on 21st March, 1831, when he voted out and out against the REFORM BILLS . . .' It is dated 4th July 1832.
The Parliamentary Reform Bill of 1832 increased the voting base in Britain from 6 per cent of the population to 12 per cent. This inevitably led to competition between politicians and parties to win the support of the new voters, and among the tools used by the opposing sides were campaign leaflets like the one shown here. The candidate it recommends, Captain George Elliot, (1784-1863) clearly supported the Reform Bill, and was a Whig. He was captain of H.M.S. Victory from 1827-1832. He was the son of Gilbert Elliot, 2nd Earl of Minto, who was Whig MP for Roxburghshire from 1812-14.  Lord John Douglas Scott, (1809-1860), was a prominent Tory and opponent of the Reform Bill. Efforts to present him to the new electorate as a 'reformer' are ridiculed here. Elliot defeated Scott in the first election after the passing of the Reform Bill in 1832, but the tables were turned in the election of 1835.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This humorous broadside, in the form of a letter, begins: 'SIR, AS I understand you are a Caledonian, it is not unlikely that an account of our Burgh Politics may afford you some gratification. Our Election came on yesterday; Laird D___d, the Banker, is re-elected Lord Mayor, with General Approbation.' The 'letter' is signed 'TOM PEEP', dated 7th October 1807 and was sent from 'Ancient Burgh, E*******h'.
The 'letter' reproduced here was probably never sent to the 'Sunday Review' but was more likely written specifically to be printed on this broadside, for public entertainment. The subject is the local council election of 1807, and the author appears to be mocking the various candidates and parties involved. It is difficult for the modern reader to know who many of the subjects of the broadside were, as only their initials are given, but the Edinburgh people of the time would likely have recognised most of them.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political broadside begins: 'Just published the melancholy Death of the Town Council of the City of Edinburgh, with an account of the Legacy which they have left to the inhabitants at their demise; also the state of the Poll at Closing, giving the names of the new councils elected this day.' Although no date of publication is included, the sheet was published by Forbes of Edinburgh.
Written in a satirical manner, the author of this amusing political broadside starts off in funereal style by reporting the recent 'death' of Edinburgh Town Council. Showing little respect for the 'dead', the writer almost indulges in schadenfreude as he follows the traditional Scottish custom of issuing a damning verdict on the town council and its 'Legacy' of high taxes. After this rather brutal opening, the writer then lists the names of the people serving on the council, complete with their constituencies. As this list contains the job titles of the councillors, it reveals much about the type of people who stand for election, with lawyers, architects, tradesmen and merchants predominating.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'SPEECH OF Sir Daniel Sandford, One of the Radical Candidates for the City of Glasgow, at Camlachie, on December 1832 - Conduct and base Plot of the Edinburgh Whigs to stifle the New-Borm Liberties of Glasgow - The Radicals triumphant.' The broadside does not carry the name of its publisher, nor its place or date of publication.
Radicals and Whigs are often regarded as been different wings of the same party, and eventually the two groups did unite to form the modern Liberal Party in 1859. However, in the 1830s and 1840s quite bitter opposition existed between Whigs and Radicals. The Whigs had been responsible for pushing through the Parliamentary Reform Bill of 1832, but many Radicals felt that it did not go far enough, and later supported the Chartists' manifesto for electoral democracy. This speech by one of the Radical candidates for Glasgow in December 1832 highlights the enmity, accusing Edinburgh Whigs of attempting to control and manipulate candidates and voting in Glasgow.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'The late Enormities committed in France need not be so much wondered at, as any Man of common Humanity would otherwise do, when it is considered that the Leaders of that miserable Country have thrown off all Regard to Religion.' The broadside does not carry the name or place of its publisher or its date of publication, but it is noted that it was sourced and translated from 'Le Moniteur' of Sunday, 16th December 1792.
This broadside claims to carry a faithful translation of a speech by Pierre-Samuel DuPont de Nemours (1739-1817), although the headline suggests that the broadside author opposes Dupont's beliefs.  DuPont, the son of a watchmaker, was a precocious humanities student whose philosophical study of economics, 'Physiocracy', influenced the famous Scottish economist and philosopher Adam Smith (1723-90). DuPont was elected president of the post-Revolutionary National Assembly in 1790, but by 1797 his moderation as a political reformer had turned radical elements in the government against him, and he was imprisoned. In later life he was a leading opponent of Napoleon Bonaparte's government, and was forced to flee France for America after Napoleon's return from exile on Elba.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political poem begins: 'Caledonia no more by Tories be school'd, / Too long by the knaves she's already been ruin'd: / And the Whig's but a Tory in sheep-skin disguise, / On the loaves and the fishes each fixes his eyes'. Although there are no publication details available for this sheet, the subject matter suggests it was most likely published during the 1830s.
The cynicism of this political broadside will certainly strike a chord with modern-day readers. This sheet is a Radical Party interpretation of an electoral contest that took place in Edinburgh during the 1830s. As James Aytoun's electoral rival is only identified as the Tory candidate, 'Jack the Coachmaker' and it is very difficult for modern-day readers to discover this man's proper identity. The sheet is illustrated with a woodcut depicting the Edinburgh coat of arms. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of political broadsides which highlight electoral campaigns in Edinburgh during this period.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The introductory text reads: 'A New Poem, composed May 1898, by Sir WM. TOPAZ. M'GONAGALL, Poet, Knight of the White Elephant, Burmah, No. 21 Lothian Street, Edinburgh.' The poem itself begins: 'Alas! The people now do sigh and moan, / For the loss of Wm. Ewart Gladstone'. It has been signed by the poet. Gladstone (1809-98) was a former Liberal Prime Minister.
McGonagall has gone down in history as one of the worst poets in the English language. Born in Dundee around 1825, he began his working life as a handloom weaver. It was not until 1877, however, when he was in his late forties, that he 'found his muse'. Throughout his 25-year career, he always remained convinced of his own genius. He died in 1902.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'At an early hour yesterday evening the following intelligence reached town by electric telegraph, taken from a sixth edition of the Sun:- "His Grace the Duke of Wellington expired at half-past three this (Tuesday) afternoon at Walmer-Castle."' The broadside was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh, and the report was apparently taken from the 'Edinburgh Witness', which in turn had the 'Sun' newspaper as the source of the story. It is dated Wednesday, September 15th 1852, and at the foot of the broadside a handwritten annotation has added 'Confirmed by Electric Telegraph of Today - 15 September'. 
Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington (1769-1852) was born in Dublin and educated at Eton. His early life combined soldiery and politics, and while Tory MP for Rye in Sussex he co-ordinated several important military victories in Europe. In 1815 he was hailed as a hero in Britain after commanding the army that defeated Napoleon at Waterloo. From 1818 Wellington devoted himself to politics. He served as Prime Minister from 1828 to 1830, but his popularity with many suffered due to his refusal to condemn the Peterloo Massacre in 1819 and his opposition to parliamentary reform in 1832. His death in 1852 was nevertheless marked by national mourning and a grand state funeral.This broadside shows the impact the telegraph had in spreading news around the country.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This supernatural report begins: 'Wonder of Wonders, or the Speech of a child born near Edinburgh on Thursday the 15th of March 1770 as delivered ten minutes after it came into the world.'
A farmer's pregnant wife has a dream that she will be delivered of a son. True enough, her son is born the next day but proceeds to give the assembled company a prediction of doom and gloom. He forecasts war, recurring Jacobite tensions and problems over the Union of Parliaments. The baby then unfortunately dies. This type of story was popular on broadsides and would have certainly made compelling escapist entertainment.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1: 'In truth, good sir, we gladly hear, / Good honest Ayton's praise; / But much we marvel at your jeer / On Whigs of our own days.' The woodcut included at the top of the page depicts a well-dressed gentleman who appears to be rather agitated. There is no further information attached to this broadside.
The picture at the top of the sheet, may have helped enhance the understanding of the sheet for those who had limited comprehension skills. The fact that it is a gentleman, as indicated by his clothes, and that he does appear agitated furthers the themes of political dissension contained in the text. The swings and roundabouts of Whig versus Tory politics dominated the power arena from the reign of Queen Anne (1702-14), until the rise of the Labour party in the early twentieth century. James Aytoun (or Ayton) (1797-1881) was prominent in Edinburgh local politics in the 1830s.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This satirical political address begins: 'FELLOW CITIZENS / In this enlightened age, when the advantages of local position are justly esteemed paramount to those of intellectual superiority or public eminence, I come forward boldly to claim your suffrages on grounds altogether independent of my political principles or of my mental qualifications.' The letter is signed, 'Your known friend, TIMOTHEUS SYNTAX, for J LEARMONTH'. Although there are no publication details available for this sheet, the subject matter suggests it was most likely published during the 1830s.
This highly amusing broadside pokes fun at politicians in general, and at John Learmonth (1789-1858), in particular. Owner of the Dean Estate, John Learmonth was Lord Provost of Edinburgh in 1832. Given the libellous nature of the address, it is clear that Learmonth himself did not write this broadside - hence the classical pseudonym, 'Timotheus Syntax'. The address also mentions two other famous politicians of that era, namely Robert Adam Dundas and Sir John Campbell. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of political broadsides that report on electoral contests in Edinburgh during this period.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.