Following on from the title, this broadside story continues: 'Who died on the 6th of August 1820, at Cramond, at the age of 105, with an account of the Wonderful Changes that would take place in the year 1822, in England, Ireland, and especially in Scotland.' The sheet was published by William Carse of Glasgow.
This highly erudite broadside introduces the audience to Edinburgh's very own Nostradamus: John Leckie of Cramond. Before dying in 1820 at the ripe old age of 105, it seems that Leckie made a series of prophecies regarding what would befall Scotland, England and Ireland in the near future. As with Nostradamus, however, these visions are stated in a rather opaque style of language, meaning that Leckie's predictions can be interpreted in numerous different ways. For instance, he states that Scotland, once famed for its enlightened citizens, is about to enter a period of darkness, from which, after a short time, it will emerge into a new period of enlightenment. However, such visions would have pleased and entertained the audience.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'MERLIN Reviv'd: / OR, / An Old PROPHECY / Lately found in a Manuscript in Pontefract-Castle in York-shire.' 
During the period of unrest surrounding Charles I's arrest and execution, Pontefract Castle remained staunchly loyal to the royalist cause and so was besieged for about a year. Setting this text within the context of Pontefract Castle would have given the piece royalist connotations. The text then goes on to 'prophesise' the actual history of the Protectorate and reassure the readers that the monarchy will triumph yet again.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This broadside begins: 'Martin's Wonderful Prophecies! RELATING TO England, Scotland, and Ireland. With and account of the Wonderful Change that must shortly take place in the Government, and in the State and Condition of the People.' The sheet is not dated, nor does it carry the name or location of the publisher. It was sold for one penny.
'Martin', the supposed author of this broadside, is not identified anywhere in the text beyond being established as a shadowy individual who has travelled widely and lived through many conflicts and historical changes. The document does not seem to be a satire so much as a piece of reformer's polemic. The text criticises a 'recent campaign', probably the Napoleonic wars, for helping to restore old regimes, and prophecises that England will lose its domination of world trade to the United States, that Scotland will suffer a temporary economic downturn, and that in Ireland, poverty and political and religious division will soon be at an end.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside article begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the most astonishing PROPHECIES and PREDICTIONS, concerning the Revolutions, War, Reform, &c that is said will happen in the various Nations of Europe, &c, in the different Months of this eventful year, 1831. By a celebrated Jewish Prophet, from Poland.' The publisher was 'R.M.'
Predictions for the coming year by astrologers or mystics, are today an integral and profitable part of the book and newspaper trade. In 1830 or 1831, when this broadside is likely to have been published, this was probably a slightly more unusual feature, although astrology and fortune-telling were ancient practices in their own rights. In retrospect, few of this prophet's predictions for 1831 appear to have been accurate, although the death of Ex-US president James Monroe on July 4th could be seen as fulfilling the prophecy of a 'great statesman' meeting 'death or disgrace'. Then, as now, the key to public prophecy appears to have been to remain quite non-specific.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A Full, True, and Interesting Account of that Remarkable and Important Discovery made yesterday in taking down the old houses in the Castle-hill, when there was found a box containg several Ancient Coins, a Massy Gold Ring, an old fashioned Dirk, and a Wonderful Prophecy made in the year 1550, respecting great events which are to happen this present year.' It was printed in Edinburgh 'for the Booksellers', and priced at one penny.
Since the prophecy relates to the year 1831, it is safe to assume that this broadside was published in or around that year. The prediction itself, whilst rather obscure, suggests that 1831 will be a year of 'myghtie trobelles' during which the country will be on the brink of destruction. However, it is also suggested that Scotland will saved by men abounding in virtue and talent.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'THE AWFUL PROPHECIES / Of David Ross, the Glasgow Prophet, which he delivered to an immense multitude in the Dove-hill of Glasgow, on Sunday the 29th Septr. 1822.' The sheet was printed by John Muir of Glasgow.
David Ross apparently taught his preachings from a house in Great Dove-hill called 'The Church of Smyrna'. His 'shuttle', presumably the spirits which communicate through him, had been venting their spleen on the Established Church and, in particular, the Glasgow College. Also, he claimed that a woman companion he had with him was 800 years old! The author of this report, unsurprisingly, is highly sceptical of Ross's claims and seems to find him ridiculous!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A most Wonderful and true Prophecy, which was found in an iron box in a Subterraneous Cavern, near the memorable field of Culloden, and was written three hundred years ago, and contains many Discoveries of what is to take place in various kingdoms of the World betwixt the years 1822 and 1826.' Published by J. Johnstone.
Apparently the prophecy, written in ancient Celtic, foretold Napoleon's rise and fall and Queen Caroline's trial and acquittal in 1820, amongst other things. It also prophesies that the National Debt would increase so much the British economy would collapse in 1823 and that between 1821-6 there would be great slaughter in the sister kingdom, France, and also that the Turkish Empire would fall, as it did.
After the report of the prophecy a 'curious prayer' is included, 'to fill up the paper'. It was apparently uttered by an old hawker of ballads and earthenware who lodged in one Mr Gregg's barn. Its sentiments are very honest, and especially striking is the consideration which the man has for the health of his ass.