This sheet begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Extravagant Adventures of a young inexperienced Farmer from the Country, on a Wednesday last, who fell in with a Dandy Young Lady, that took him to the famed Battery, in the Canongate'. This sheet would have sold for a penny at the time of publication.
The term battery here, seems to refer to a brothel or house of ill-repute, the 'soldiers' and 'weapons' inside being the inhabitants. This story relates how an innocent and naïve young man is enticed into carousing and then staying the night with the women of the house, who eventually pick his pockets as he sleeps. The outcome of the story is that he loses his horse, his reputation and contracts a venereal disease.
Broadsides, cheap and accessible, were often used as moral forums with 'lessons of life' included in the narrative. Broadside authors tended to see themselves as moral guardians and teachers in society. As such, publishers often disseminated 'educational' texts outlining the social and personal consequences of undisciplined or immoral behaviour.This lament begins: 'TWice Sixteen Years hath over past, / Once sixteen more may prove our last, / Our Tender Yers in Lucky's service spent, / So pleasantly we can scarce Repent'. At the bottom of the sheet is a short verse entitled 'Luckie's Last Words'.
Luckie Spence was a famous Edinburgh brothel keeper. The satire written on her death, 'Lucky Spence's Last Advice', is also in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This piece is more sombre in tone. It is written in the person of Lucky's 'girls', as they bemoan the fact that she will certainly go to hell, and remember the good times they had working for her.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This news report begins 'A Melancholy account of a Female Prostitute, who died in a deplorable condition on the South Bridge Edinburgh, on the 18th of this present month, April, 1824; also, an account of her life an transactions for the last 21 years: this unfortunate victim of dissipation was born of respectable parents in Edinburgh, and received an education fitted to adorn the sex.'
Moral instruction was common feature of broadsides. In this example the report is written from the point of view of a dying prostitute.  Although it is stressed that she was 'well educated' it is unlikely that the prostitute was the author of the piece. It is possible that an anonymous author wrote it after encountering and interviewing a dying prostitute. It is also possible that the prostitute is a figment of the author's imagination, a symbol warning women of the dangers of prostitution. The language used in the report suggests that the author was someone with strong religious beliefs or connections.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.