This crime report begins: ' A particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JOHN MILLAR, WILLIAM STORRIER and WM. ROBERTSON, for two different Rapes, of a most horrid nature, and committed at different times, who is to be Executed at Cupar in Fife, on the 31st of October next.' It was printed by William Carse of Glasgow. The report is not dated.
The headline of this broadside indicates the willingness of publishers to sensationalise reporting in order to gain readers. The smaller print reveals that rape was actually committted only in the second case, whereas in the first case it was fortunately averted. The law and press opinion in nineteenth-century Scotland were often prejudiced against women, but in Robertson's case, despite the jury's recommendation for mercy, the judge imposes the maximum penalty of death. There are other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection that feature this case.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Account of that Cruel and Horrid Rape which was perpetrated by a Man on a Woman on the Paisley Road, on SATURDAY, and who was apprehended by a passenger on the Road . . . Also, an account of another Cruel Rape . . . on a Girl, only thirteen years of age . . . In Cumberland Street, Edinburgh'. The sheet was printed in Glasgow by William Carse.
Shocking reports such as this one were standard fare for broadside pedlars. The more sensational the story, the more popular the broadside was likely to be. This one uses highly emotive language to describe both incidents and ends by stating that 'Serious crime is now increasing to an alarming extent' and giving details of others due to be tried for similar offences. It appears that there has been a problem with the type at the bottom left of the sheet, and someone has drawn the characters on by hand.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JOHN MILLAR and WILLIAM STORRIER, accused of an Assault and Rape on a Girl, 14 years of age, . . . . ; as also, of WILLIAM ROBERTSON, for committing a similar crime.'
John Millar and William Storrier were convicted of holding down and raping a 14-year-old girl in the woods near Glammis, Angus, for which they were sentenced to be publicly whipped in Dundee and transported for 14 years. William Robertson was convicted of assaulting, wounding and raping a woman near Fife. He was sentenced to execution for the crime. Neither of the women in the cases were named, due to social attitudes and the stigma attached to rape victims at the time.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'Trial & Sentence Of JAMES BURTNEY before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Monday the 18th Nov. 1822, for violating the person of a Girl under nine years of age, at Prestwick, near Ayr, when he was sentenced to be Executed at Ayr, on Friday the 20th day of December next.' It was printed by John Muir of Glasgow and probably sold for one penny.
The victim of this particularly heinous crime was a young girl called Janet Anderson, who was the daughter of Burtney's neighbour, J. Anderson, 'wright at Prestwick toll'. It is reported that following the attack 'an incalculable number of people' were involved in the pursuit and apprehension of Burtney. People were shocked by this crime and upon sentencing no recommendation for mercy was offered by the jury.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'Just published, the Trial of Duncan MacMillan, for the horrid crime of assaulting and raviging the person of Jean McLauchlane, with the dreadful Sentence pronounced upon him, which important trial came on before the High Court of Justiciary yesterday, and lasted for twelve hours.' Publisher: Forbes & Co. Printers, 171 Cowgate, Edinburgh.
As outlined above, this broadside dramatically tells the story of how Duncan MacMillan was found guilty by a jury - meeting behind closed doors yet still naming the victim - of assaulting and intending to ravish Jean McLauchlane. As the jury returned a 'not proven' verdict for the rape charge, the sentence was mitigated from death to transportation. After concluding the main story, the broadsheet then gives a general court round-up of other crimes.
As with the tabloids of today, broadside court reports that recounted dark and salacious crimes were always popular reading with the general public and sold in large numbers. Immediacy was of great importance, as highlighted by the use of the opening phrase, 'Just published'.This report begins: 'A full, true, and particular Account of the Trial of Mr David Bartie, writer, before the High Court of Justiciary, yesterday, for violating the person of Margaret Gray, a girl fourteen years of age, servant in the house in which the pannel lodged, in East Cumberland Street, Edinburgh, and which Trial occupied the Court eleven hours.' Published by Forbes & Owen in Edinburgh.
The Scottish Book Trade Index, available online through the National Library of Scotland's website, has Forbes & Owen listed at five different addresses in central Edinburgh between 1830 and 1834, but the firm does not appear after 25th November 1834. There were numerous small printers in Edinburgh in the first half of the nineteenth century, many specialising in sensational broadsides such as this.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This punishment report continues: 'through the Streets of Glasgow, on Wednesday the 25th September, 1822, for committing a violent Assault on the person of a young Girl under 12 years of age, at Greenock. Also, the Judge's Address to the prisoner on passing Sentence. It was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
Hand was simply flogged and transported, instead of hung, because he was eventually convicted of attempted rape. The case was conducted behind closed doors, to avoid shaming Mary Ann Smart's family but after the verdict of 'attempted' was returned her name could be released. It is curious to note that Hand's origin, England, is highlighted. The publisher, Muir, has also given a summary of the other cases around Scotland at the time, showing that news travelled.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.