This report begins: 'Just Published, an Account of that Extraordinary & Singular Circumstance which took place at the Tuesday morning Lecture, in the Tolbooth Church, High Street, Edinburgh; when neither Minister or Precentor having come forward, an old Woman mounted the Pulpit, addressed the Audience - sung Psalms - offered up Prayers, [an]d dismissed the Congregation, to the astonishment [an]d satisfaction of her Hearers'. There is minor damage to the broadside that has obscured parts of words. The publisher was James Brown of Edinburgh. The date of publication is not supplied.
There are two related, humorous reports included on this broadside. The first, part of which is quoted above, is reproduced from the 'Scotsman' newspaper. Its author parodies religious chauvinism, claiming that the occurrence of an old woman preaching in Edinburgh's Tolbooth Kirk is evidence that 'THE CHURCH IS IN DANGER'. He also satirises Thomas Chalmers (1780-1847), the prominent evangelist and social reformer, claiming that the old woman's actions disprove Chalmers' fears about the spread of heathenism in Scotland. The second report is a short article about a minister's dog following his master into the pulpit.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This cartoon shows several ministers dancing wildly while a judge waves a sword at them from an open doorway. Its caption reads: 'THE REEL OF BOGIE!! / A CLERICAL DANCE. / Sometimes danced as a Foursome, sometimes as a Threesome, and sometimes as a Twoseome Reel. / "As Charlie [sic] glowr'd amazed and curious, / The mirth and fun grew fast and furious" - Burns.' The cartoonist's initials are given as 'D.D.' The lithographer was W. Nichol and the sheet was published by A. Lesage of 21 Hanover Street in Edinburgh. It may date from between 1833 and 1842, when Lesage is known to have had premises there.
The various figures in this cartoon are proclaiming things as they dance. One shouts 'A fig for the Court of Session'. Another holds aloft a flag which reads 'RETRACT!!! NO!! NOT A HAIR'S BREADTH'. A picture on the wall behind them shows Nero fiddling while Rome burns.The cartoon seems to imply arguments between the various ministers, and the caption suggests that they seem to form and break alliances regularly. It may well be a reference to the series of disputes in the Church of Scotland which eventually led to the Disruption of 1843.
The Disruption was the culmination of a long-standing series of disputes between the evangelical and moderate wings of the Church of Scotland. Although there were various doctrinal differences, at the heart of the crisis was the debate about who had the right to choose a minister. The evangelicals believed that the congregation should vote for the minster, while the moderates believed that the local landowner or patron should have the final decision. The Disruption occurred at the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, when 474 ministers walked out and founded the Free Church.This account begins: 'ORGANIC AFFECTIONS. / OR An Account of  A MEETING HELD IN THE RELIEF CHURCH, ST JAMES' PLACE, TO Consider the use of an ORGAN in Public Worship.' A light-hearted dialogue at the bottom of the sheet reads: 'Is it not absurd for such illiterate and vulgar speaking men to be rulers of a church? Wha's that talkin' there? WILLIE SMITH! gi'e him a daud i' the lug the daft brute, what right has he to set up his chat! / Stand yont or I shave him! ! ! han' me yir Stick Tam'.
'Willie Smith' refers to the publisher William Smith, who was responsible for publishing this account. Although no date is provided on this sheet, it is known that Smith had premises at 3 Bristo Port, Edinburgh, between 1824 and 1829, which would suggest that this broadside was published between these years. During this time, he also had premises at 47 Crosscauseway. He is known to have produced a large number of humorous broadsides and chapbooks, some of which are included in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This story begins: 'An account of the strange and wonderful manner in which John Fox, who some time ago lived near Nottingham, was sorely afflicted with an Evil Spirit, that threw him into fits, deprived him of the power of speech, spoke within him, and endeavoured to baffle the efforts of the Ministers who attended him, whose names are here mentioned; also an account how he was at length relieved, after remaining three years dumb, and lived a virtuous and religious life.' Although no date of publication is included, the sheet was published by T. Duncan of Glasgow.
This broadside tells the story of John Fox from Nottingham, who, according to local ministers, was possessed by the devil for a short period, before he was finally cured. Despite what the writer claims, however, it is far more likely that poor Fox suffered some sort of mental breakdown, than the devil took over control of his soul. Indeed, it is interesting to note that rather than calling a doctor to treat Fox, he was instead treated by a collection of religious ministers. During a supernatural age such as this one, however, the fate of a person's soul was considered of vital importance - hence the emphasis on Fox's return to the path of religious righteousness following his miraculous cure.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This is a rather unusual broadside in that it reads much like a scene from a musical play, with several characters involved in the story. Written in verse form, the opening line of the dialogue reads: 'Whaur gat ye the bawbees? / My boy Tammy'. A note below the title states that these lyrics should be sung to the tune, 'My Boy Tammy'. Although no date is given, a footnote states that it was published by 'SANDERSON, Printer, 36. Cowgate-head, Edinburgh'.
The story behind this peculiar ballad-cum-dialogue centres on the mysterious origins regarding where Tammy got his pile of bawbees from - a 'bawbee' being a halfpenny. It seems likely that this dialogue is intended as a satire on 'The Free Kirk', who were commonly known as the 'Bawbee-kirk'. The newly formed Free Church, was, in 1844, deeply in need of financial support, for this reason it sent a deputation to the United States to raise funds. This broadside is an attack on the acceptance by William Cunningham (part of the deputation) and the others, of contributions towards Free Church funds from the Presbyterian churches in the slave-holding states of America. Thomas Chalmers (Tammy) was at this time the Moderator of the new Free Church. Frederick Douglass, the American abolitionist, in a visit to Scotland, spoke against the Free Church of Scotland for accepting this money from American slave-owners. He implored the Church to 'send back the money' they had accepted from the slave owners.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This tribute was written by Robert Monteith, and is dedicated to 'Patrick, Earl of Marchmount, Lord High Chancellar of the kingdom of Scotland'; 'Sir Hugh Dalrymple of North-Berwick, Lord President'; and 'to the remanent Lords, ordinary and extraordinary, senators of the colledge of justice'. The first verse of the eulogy begins: 'Cretians and Grecians were deemed were, to be / Liars , of old, by antient poesie; / But Greek Phocylides speaks lofty Truth, / With Precepts grave, instucting florid Youth.' Although no date is included, this sheet is likely to have been published in the early eighteenth century.
Written in a lofty and epic style, this eulogy pays tribute to two famous Scots: Patrick Hume, First Earl of Marchmont (1641-1724), and Sir Hugh Dalrymple, Lord of Drummore (1700-53). As both men were opponents of the Stewart family and the Catholic faith, it is likely that this broadside is an example of Protestant propaganda. Hume and Dalrymple were also strong supporters of the Act of Union of 1707, between the Scottish and English parliaments. Dalrymple is also famous for inventing hollow-pipe drainage, which allowed waterlogged land to be dried, thereby increasing agricultural production.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This fictional dialogue begins with the pillard saying: 'Awake, thou busie dreamer, and arise, / Shake off th' unwilling slumber from thine eyes.' Defoe replies: 'Hail dread Tribunal! Reverend Machine, / Of awfull phyz, and formidable mein!' No publication details are on the sheet.
English-born Daniel Defoe (1660-1731) was put in the pillory (or stocks), in July 1703, and this piece was probably written around that time or shortly afterwards. Defoe was subjected to this public humiliation for the publication of a pamphlet, 'The Shortest Way with Dissenters'. This was an attack on the High Church, written as if from its viewpoint, but extending its arguments to the point of ludicrousness. Both the Church and Dissenters took it seriously and were outraged when they discovered it was a hoax. When put on the pillory, however, Defoe was hailed a hero, and flowers were thrown instead of the usual rocks. He wrote a celebrated poem about his experience, 'Hymn to the Pillory', the same year.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This epitaph begins: 'UNDER this Stone / Lies a reverend Drone, / Who preach'd against sin / with a terrible Grin, / In which some may think / that he acted but Odly / Since he liv'd by the wicked / and not by the Godly.' A note at the foot of this sheet states that it was originally printed in London, then 'Reprinted at the Foot of the Horse-weynd', in Edinburgh.
This bawdy and irreverent broadside fondly commemorates the passing of Mr Samuel Smith, whose parish was the infamous Newgate Prison, and whose flock consisted of 'Newgate Burds'. Judging by the verses to this epitaph, Smith appeared to take a rather mercenary approach to tending his flock, and it seems he would willingly convert prisoners into saints if the garnishing fee were to his pleasing. Indeed, the epitaph's numerous references to the rope suggest that Mr Smith's main vocation in life was to attend to those prisoners who were awaiting the death sentence.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'In Genesis the world was made by God's creative hand; / In Exodus the Hebrews marched to gain the Promised Land. / Leviticus contains the law - holy, and just, and good; / Numbers records the tribes enrolled - all sons of Abraham?s blood.' The sheet was published by L. Macartney at the The Poet?s Box, 184 Overgate, Dundee. Its date of publication is not included.
This is a summary of some of the principal events in the books of the Bible, laid out chronologically and in verse form. All sixty-six books are mentioned, and the ballad is divided into two verses echoing the division of the Bible into the Old and New Testaments. The ballad was probably written as an act of devotion, but also perhaps as a way to help Christians remember the names, events and sequence of the books of the Bible. In the nineteenth century, when this broadside was published, adults and children were expected by many Christian churches to have a comprehensive Biblical knowledge.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Although the News be spread of late / Throughout our Scottish Nation; / That we e're long shall be Defeat, / By Papists their lnvasion'.
The Oath of Abjuration, referred to in the title, was originally enforced by King William III (William of Orange) during a time of much religious and political struggle. It was introduced as part of the Security of Succession Act of 1702, and required the taker of the oath to renounce their allegiance to the Stuarts and the Church of Rome. Initially intended for those in public office, in many places it was required of most of the adult male population. This broadside is written from the Protestant perspective and, as such, welcomes the instigation of the oath.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This religious text begins: 'MY Beloved Brethern - I'm an unlarnt Hardshell Baptist Preacher, of whom you've hearn afore, and I now appear here to expound the Scripters, and pint out the  Narrer Way'. Decorative woodcuts have been included on the sheet.
Although it is claimed that the Brother is 'well known' no further details are included on the sheet. The misspellings and attempts to convey the accent, suggest that this character is being portrayed as dim. The references to hardshell and flint perhaps imply criticism of Baptist preachers. Certainly there was a move towards religious questioning and exploration throughout the nineteenth century.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debateThis story begins: 'A strange and wonderful Account of a Rev. and well beloved Clergyman in London, who died a few days ago, and remained in that state for eighteen hours, and who, after being dressed in dead clothes, and laid out to be coffined, to the great surprise, terror and astonishment of all present, started up in bed, and, at great length, described the most wonderful sights he had seen, and what, he said, was to happen in the United Kingdoms in a short time.' The sheet was published by Francis McCartney of Edinburgh.
This broadside contains a fantastical story concerning the Lazarus-like return journey experienced by an unidentified clergyman in London. In short, this minister had apparently died and was laid out in his burial clothes, only to miraculously reappear back into the world of the living. While unconscious, however, the minister imagined himself on the verge of passing through heaven's gate but, despite the enticing harmonious music, for some reason could not bring himself to enter into God's heavenly kingdom. Instead, the minister chose to return to the worldly kingdoms of Britain and Ireland, where he brings good news through his visions that peace will soon replace war. Religious propaganda such as this would have been commonplace at this time.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'WILLIAM SANKEY, BOLDLY STATES, IN MERCHANTS' HALL, That every Evangelical is a Heretic; --- "All the Ministers have no commission from God;" --- "They are accursed;" --- and "All the churches are Synagogues of Satan."' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
Although William Sankey appears to have been a prominent figure in his day, little is known of him today. It is clear from this broadside that he was a controversial figure who aroused a great deal of religious debate. A large number of broadsides focused on the frictions surrounding religious differences. In a predominantly presbyterian country such as Scotland, there would have been very few people who did not have an opinion on such matters.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.