This crime report begins: 'A Full, true and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of John Ramsay, who was tried a second time on the charge of rioting at Ayr; Together with the trials and sentences of the different prisoners who were tried this week.' The broadside is not dated, nor does it carry any publication details.
The charges described in this broadside all relate to a riot that occurred during an Orange Walk in Girvan, Ayrshire. Although the date is not given on the broadside, these are probably some of the lesser cases emerging from a serious riot in Girvan on 12th July 1831, in which a Special Constable was killed and several more injured. The riot was part of a series of confrontations between Orangemen and Reform Movement protestors that blighted Girvan from April until October 1831. The five men mentioned in this broadside were weavers, and as such, were probably members of the Reform Movement.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT SURRAGE and JOHN DEMPSEY, Privates in the 13th Regiment of Infantry, who are to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 13th December, 1820, for the Murder of Three Men in a Riot at Greenock, on the Evening of the 31st of July last.' The broadside was published by James Lindsay of Edinburgh and priced at one penny.
The author's transcription of the witness accounts, and the verdicts ultimately passed, suggest uncertainty about what really happened in this case. The witness reports suggest several confrontations, fights and pursuits taking place on the same night in Greenock , and although the soldiers appear to have been the aggressors, the individuals involved are not identified in the transcription of the witness accounts. The two 'Not Proven' verdicts, and the recommendation that one of the men convicted be shown mercy, suggest that the evidence and eyewitness accounts were not conclusive.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'An account of the Trial of John Skelton, which came on before the High Court of Justiciary, at Edinburgh, on Monday the 2d of March, 1812, for Rioting and Robbery, on the streets of Edinburgh, on New Year's Morning last, and who is to be executed in that City, on Wednesday the 15th of April next. -Also the indictment of Six Persons, concerned in the same Riots, and accused of the Murder of Dugald Campbell, Police Officer.' It was published by Thomas Duncan of 159 Saltmarket, Glasgow.
Thomas Duncan's business premises at 159 Saltmarket, were in the heart of Glasgow's publishing district. According to Adam McNaughtan, 'Of the twenty-four people engaged in the book trade [in the early nineteenth century] eleven had their premises in the Saltmarket'. Prior to setting up business on his own, Duncan is thought to have been a partner in the firm of Robert and Thomas Duncan until 1785. Throughout the early nineteenth century, Duncan's main competitors were two other prominent broadside publishers, William Carse and John Muir. All three men vied to be the first to deliver trial reports, last words and circuit court lists to an eager public.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'Full, true and Particular account of the Trial of Samuel M'Lauchlan, master baker, and Thomas Badger, before the High Court of Justiciary, for the Riots at Lauder at the election of a member of parliament, and for assaulting Lord Maitland, the Sheriff of the County, the Fiscal, and Mr Simpson, one of the Magistrates, by forcing him into a coach and driving him out of the town, in purpose to keep him from voting.' It was printed by Forbes and Kay of the Cowgate.
Whilst there is no date attached to this broadside, it is generally believed to have been printed by Kay and Forbes in 1831. At this time, across the entire country, people were protesting against a corrupt and unrepresentative electoral system. This broadside details the trial of two men who allegedly instigated one of the countless riots that occurred. The first small step towards British parliamentary reform was marked the following year by the 1832 Reform Act, which extended the franchise to include men of the upper middle classes.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An account of a Serious Outrage and Disturbance in Glasgow, on Saturday night last, 21st June, when the Military were called out, and 43 persons were apprehended and lodged in prison.' From other reports on the incident, we can ascertain that this took place in 1828.
The report contained in this broadside describes how a group of Glasgow citizens were arrested for trying to tear down walls and fences that obstructed a former public footpath by the Clyde. References to 'the Proprietor' and 'the works' suggest that the walls were built as part of a new industrial complex. The phenomenal expansion of Glasgow from town to industrial metropolis between the late-eighteenth and early-twentieth centuries inevitably impinged on the living standards and recreation of many of its people.
Other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection report that the case went as far as the House of Lords, eventually being won by the people of Glasgow.This account begins, 'A Full and Particular Account of these Great Riots and Mobs that took place at Dundee, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday last, the 6th, 7th and 8th July, 1830, when Three men lost their Lives, and about 200 severely wounded! By an Eye-witness.' It was printed in Edinburgh for William Robertson.
The rioting reported in this broadside apparently started following an argument, between a Scotsman known as Heron and an Irishman named Thurrel, over 'the fatal battle between Sandy Mckay and Symon Burn'. The battle referred to was a boxing match, which took place on 2 June 1830 at Salcey Green, between Simon Byrne, the Champion of Ireland, and Alexander (Sandy) Mckay, the Champion of Scotland. Byrne was arrested for the murder of McKay, who died of brain damage the day after the fight. Following a trial weighted in his favour, however, the jury returned a not guilty verdict and Byrne walked free. Ironically, Byrne died in a fight with James 'Deaf' Burke, at St. Albans, Hertfordshire, on 2nd June 1833.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Accounnt of these Great Riots and Mobs that took place at Dundee, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday last, the 6th, 7th and 8th July, 1830, when Three Men lost their Lives, and about 200 severely wounded! By an Eye-witness.' The sheet was published by William Robertson of Edinburgh. Illegible, handwritten dates have been scribbled on the sheets.
Sensational news always has and probably always will make for compelling entertainment, regardless of the location of the occurrence. Certainly, during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, political meetings were highly dangerous and confrontation made exciting reading. There are other sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which report on political meetings and demonstrations from all over Scotland.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This news report begins: 'A full and particular account of a most serious and distressing RIOT which took place on Musselburgh Links yesterday, Thursday, 31st of July, 1823, between the Irish, & Colliers, and Salters, with a full account of how it originated, and the number of the Killed and Wounded.'
The report attributes this riot to an unprovoked assault by an Irishman and decribes a battle which pitched locals against Irishmen. It is impossible to know if the report is fair, but it certainly reflects tension between native Scots and Irish incomers. Anti-Irish propaganda was widespread in nineteenth-century Scotland due to continuing intolerance of Roman Catholicism, an influx of Irish workers to the industrial lowlands of Scotland and British government opposition to Irish Home Rule. In the last respect 1823 was a particularly sensitive year, when Irish Home Rule campaigner Daniel O' Connell formed the Catholic Association to agitate for Catholic voting rights.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Copy of a letter received this morning from an inhabitant of Lauder; containing a particular account of that dreadful Riot which took place there on Monday morning last, between a number of Irish shearers and the inhabitants.' The letter is dated September 26th, 1821.
The incident described here was apparently provoked by a family of Irish gypsy origins, who had travelled to the Borders from Glasgow to seek work during the Harvest. It is alleged that having been deprived of work by local sheep-shearers, the Doughertys drunkenly recruited assistance from other Irish shearers and attacked the townspeople of Lauder. It is impossible to know how fair this account is. Religious bigotry and the issue of Irish Home Rule made anti-Irish sentiment common in nineteenth-century Scotland, and the prejudice of the letter-writer is evident in some places, such as the snide reference to the Irish shearers as 'the Pats'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside, printed on March 18th 1841, begins: 'Seldom has our city been the scene of such a disgraceful riot as that which took place last night. The following are a few particulars connected with it, as they have reached us; but the whole will of course soon undergo a judicial investigation.' The sheet was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh.
In Roxburgh Street Chapel in Edinburgh's south side, a man named Leckie had, for several weeks, been delivering lectures against the Roman Catholic religion. The meetings were normally well-attended and, although some debate between people of different faiths occurred, there was very little trouble. However, on this occasion fighting broke out and 'considerable damage' was done to the church.
The anti-popery movement gathered pace in the early part of the nineteenth century, as Evangelical revivalists sought to gain superiority. In 1852, the anti-Papist 'Scottish Reformation Society' had 38 branches scattered throughout Scotland.This account begins: 'Last Thursday Evening, there happened a very great Disturbance in the Church of St. Mary-White-Chaple ; It seems there is a Lecture on that Night Established by Subscription, which was Preached by the Reverend Mr. Sutton (now  Non-Juror) . . .' Whilst the story originally appeared in London, this particular copy was printed by an Edinburgh publisher.
The account goes on to reveal that a man of unknown identity took to the pulpit and preached to those assembled on the subject of 'The Unity of the Spirit and the Bond of Peace'. It is further reported that a fight broke out over perceived anti-government sentiments contained in his sermon. The commotion resulted in the minister locking himself in the vestry! 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of that Great Public Meeting which took place in Coldbath-fields, London, on Monday last, for the purpose of forming a NATIONAL CONVENTION, giving an account of the Speeches delivered on the occasion, -- Together with an account of the desperate attack by 3000 Policemen, under the direction of Lord Melbourne, and Colonel Rowan and Mr Mayne, -- with the names of the killed and wounded, and the number taken prisoners.' The sheet was published by Francis McCartney of Edinburgh in May, 1833, and the story was sourced from 'The Caledonian Mercury' of May the 16th, 1833.
This broadside tells of a political meeting at Coldbath Fields, London, that somehow ended up as a calamitous riot. Held on the 16th of May, 1833, the meeting was organised by ordinary working men who wanted an increase in their wages. It seems that the police, with batons drawn, marched on the 1,000 attendees at the meeting, leading to fighting and, tragically, the fatal stabbing of one policemen, PC Robert Cully. The reference to the then home secretary, Lord Melbourne (1779-1848), shows that, although the authorities tried to legislate against such meetings, many people chose to defy the law and attend these political gatherings.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Full and particular Account of that dreadful and bloody engagement which took place betwixt a party of Smugglers, and some men belonging to the Preventive Service, on Wednesday last, at St. John's Haven, when three men were most cruelly murdered.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was 'Printed for Fergus Ferguson, Bookseller'. Unfortunately, the sheet is not dated.
This broadside news report offers its audience an exciting glimpse into the criminal underworld, as it describes a violent struggle that took place between smugglers and excise men. It was certainly a bloody confrontation, with three smugglers being killed and seven excisemen being wounded. Frustratingly, the sheet does not specify the exact location of where this incident took place or when it happened. However, it seems highly likely that St John's Haven is an early version of Johnshaven, which is an isolated fishing village located on the Aberdeenshire coast. Combining the fact that the 'Preventive Waterguard' was formed in 1809 with the story's reference to the King, places the publication date of this sheet between 1809 and 1837.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Dreadful and Awful Riots in Paris, (occasioned by the Anniversary of the Murder of the Duke de Berri,) by the friends of Charles the Tenth, now at Holyroodhouse, - With an account of the Destruction of the Catholic Archbishop's Palace, and of his Arrest, also an Account of the capture of several of the Ringleaders.' The broadside was published by John Campbell of Edinburgh. It is not dated.
This broadside refers to rioting in Paris to mark the anniversary of the death of the Duke de Berri. Charles, Duke de Berri, second son of King Louis XVIII of France (1755-1824), was murdered at the Opera in Paris in 1820. The broadside also mentions Charles X of France (1757-1836) being at Holyrood House, which dates it to 1830 or later. Charles, successor to Louis XVIII, was deposed in 1830 and returned to Holyrood, where he had lived in exile during the French revolution and the reign of Napoleon Bonaparte. Charles' choice of Scotland as a sanctuary was probably influenced by the 'Auld Alliance' between the countries, which had existed since 1295.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'A full and particular Account of that most alarming RIOT at Wick, in Caithness Shire, in consequence of Cholera having appeared there on Thursday last, the 26th July, against Dr Allison of this city, who was in imminent danger of his life, and had to leave the place.' This account was copied from 'the Courant of Saturday last' and was printed for John Lyons of Edinburgh and sold for one penny.
Although no date is given on this particular broadside, it was probably printed around 1832 when England and Scotland both suffered virulent outbreaks of cholera. It appears from this detailed account that the townsfolk of Wick were so alarmed by the number of deaths, and the severity of the outbreak, that they accused Dr Allison of poisoning the water supply.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.