This report begins: 'Lamentation of George Giechrist, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday morning the 3d. August instant for the Robbing of the Prince Regent Coach, between Edinburgh and Glasgow, on the 24th. of March 1831.' This sheet was published by George Craig of Edinburgh. A 'lamentation' was an act of expressing grief, regret and perhaps atonement.
After a brief introduction, this broadside ballad dramatically tells the woeful tale of one George Giechrist, who was sentenced to death for robbing the Prince Regent Coach. The verses tell of a robber seeking redemption, and the tone of this piece reads very much like a last confession to a priest. The difference is, however, that this broadside would have been read by numerous people, since crime broadsides were very popular with the public. As with many other broadsides, therefore, it ends up reading like a hybrid of last confession and a stern warning to others to stick to the path of righteousness.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of Charles Maclaren, Thos. Grierson, and James M'Ewan, 3 boys, the oldest only 15 years of age, and all belonging to Edinburgh, for house-breaking and robbery, in Gray Street and George's Square, and who are to be Executed in Edinburgh, on the 12th of Feb. next.' This sheet was published by Glass of Edinburgh.
These three boys were found guilty of housebreaking and stealing a vast quantity of silver and silk - the daring of youth. No details are given of their arrest and conviction, but their previous offences are emphasised. Legal code at this time gave prime protection to people's property and so their list of stolen goods coupled with their reputations went against them. This case was reported on other broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'The whole particulars of that daring Robbery . which was committed on the Stirling Mail, on Saturday last with an account of the apprehension of one of the Robbers.'
On Saturday the 18th October, probably during the 1820s, the Stirling-Edinburgh mail coach was robbed whilst it stopped at Kirkliston. Three men took £10,000 cash from the boot while the staff were engaged on business. This sort of story, with its detailed description of the strategy, its seedier allusions (to the brothel for example) and the arrest of witnesses and accomplices, would have made compulsive reading. Audience were looking to be entertained especially as the growth of city populations meant that local gossip was harder to diffuse.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside crime report begins: ' Copy Letter, relative to the Case of these three unfortunate young Boys CHARLES M'LAREN, THOMAS GRIERSON, and JAMES M'EWEN, who were lately sentenced to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 12th February, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft; but who have been Respited for one Month longer.' It was published by James McLean of Edinburgh.
The case described here is that of three boys aged between thirteen and seventeen, who have been sentenced to death for housebreaking and theft. Often broadside authors and editors were supportive of the harsh sentences handed down in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland, but here a letter arguing against the death sentences is reproduced, and the editorial agrees with its plea for clemency. The letter draws attention to the backgrounds of the condemned boys, proving that the association between crime and social deprivation is not merely a modern liberal theory. The execution of under-16s in Britain was not abolished until 1908.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of William Mitchel, for Theft and Forgery, who is to be executed at the west end of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 9th of October next. - Also an account of the Trial and Execution of Samuel Tucker, for the Murder of his Wife, which atrocious crime he perpetrated by starving her to death, and for which he suffered at Salisbury, on Friday 2d of August, 1811, and his body was given for dissection.' The sheet was published by T. Duncan, Glasgow.
This broadside describes the trials and sentences of two separate crimes. The first report tells of a defendant called William Mitchel, who was found guilty of forgery and sentenced to death. It could be that this sentence was reduced to one of transportation, however, since many death sentences for crimes such as forgery were later reduced if the jury recommended mercy. Following this report, is a chilling account of how Samuel Tucker, a weaver turned doctor, starved his wife to death after imprisoning her in their house. Tucker was sentenced to death for this most horrendous of crimes and, after confessing his sins in a chapel, was executed in Salisbury.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial of ROBERT MURRAY, who was tried yesterday, the 28th February, 1825, before the High Court of Justiciary, for the Robbery of the Stirling Mail, on the evening of the 18th December last, at Kirkliston when Cash to the amount of upwards of £7000 Sterling was abstracted!'. This sheet was published by Robert McMillan and sold for a penny.
Most of this report details the actions of William Hume, the time-served Guard of the Mail Coach. Though negligent for not locking the mail box he was not held responsible for the theft. Robert Murray, a Londoner who lived 'on the interest from his money', was dismissed on a verdict of Not Proven. It is not clear how Murray became involved in the case at all, the report simply says the ?bank people . . . received some intelligence'.
£7,000 in 1825 was a lot of money. Nowadays it would be worth over £300,000.This trial report begins: 'Trial & Sentence Of WILLIAM M'INTYRE, an unfortunate tailor, belonging to Paisley, who was tried before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Monday the 20th January, 1823, and sentenced to be executed there on Wednesday the 26th day of February next, betwixt 8 and 10 o'clock in the morning, for Housebreaking and Theft.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow, and probably cost one penny.
Seventeen year old William McIntyre from Paisley was tried and sentenced to be executed for breaking into the house of Miss Ann Butler at Lothian Road, Edinburgh, and stealing 'a large quantity of wearing apparel'. McIntyre protested his innocence and claimed to be sleeping on a park bench when he was awoken with cries of 'Stop Thief', soon after which he was arrested and taken into custody. It does seem very possible that poor, unfortunate McIntyre happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and suffered the most awful consequence because of it.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of Charles MacLaren, Thomas Grierson, and James M'Ewen, accused of Housebreaking and Theft, they having, on the 8th, or the morning of the 9th September, entered into the house of Thomas Riddle, Esq. W.S. Gray Street, Newington, and stealing there from a variety of Silver Plate, a Gold Snuff Box, a Pair of Pistols, &c. who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 12th, February 1823.' The broadside was priced at one penny. No other publication details are included.
Other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection reveal that there was outcry at this 1823 death sentence, for housebreaking and theft, passed on three boys aged between thirteen and seventeen. A respite of one month was subsequently granted to them, and at the bottom of this broadside, a later handwritten annotation states: 'Pardoned and sent to Botany Bay', suggesting that the sentences against all three were eventually commuted to transportation to Australia. The death sentence for under-16s in Britain was not abolished until 1908.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of Thomas Black and John Reid two Boys, who are to be Executed at the head of Libertons Wynd Edin. On Wednesday the 10th day of Dec. next, for Housebreaking and Robbery in the Neighbourhood of Leith.' It was printed for B. Brown and sold for one penny.
The National Library of Scotland's broadside collection contains a number of other broadsides relating to this case, including several detailing Black's execution and one recounting his final words. It appears from the information on these broadsides that John Reid was granted a reprieve at the last minute. Thomas Black, on the other hand, was indeed executed for his crimes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Account of the Trial and Sentence of John Wright and James Nichol, for breaking into Merchiston Castle, for which Wright is sentenced to be executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes the 16th day of April next, and Nichol banished.' This sheet cost one penny to buy when it was published.
The process of hanging was universal in Great Britain until 1850, when more scientific and 'humane' ways were introduced. Prisoners were hung by the 'short fall' method. This is when the prisoners' support is removed from under them. Bodies were usually left hanging for at least an hour to ensure they were dead. The Grassmarket area was most commonly used for Edinburgh executions.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full, True and particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of WILLIAM HARDIE, Gamekeeper, before the High Court of Justiciary on Monday, for Shooting at William Bayles, or Bailes, with intent to Murder; also a correct account of the Trial of the notorious Edinburgh Thief ROBERT HORN, and JAMES M'LAREN, for daring Housebreaking and Theft.' The broadside was published by John Campbell of Edinburgh. The date is not supplied.
The cases on this broadside illustrate some of the differences between attitudes to crime today and in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Had William Hardie killed his victim, he would almost certainly have hanged, but as it was he was sentenced to only four months for attempted murder: crimes of violence, provided they did not result in death, were often regarded as quite inconsequential. Today Hardie could not have been hanged, but his sentence for a premeditated shooting would have been far longer than four months. The death penalty for housebreaking and theft was not fully abolished until 1861, probably subsequent to the publication of this broadside, and Robert Horn, as a 'notorious' thief, was quite lucky to escape with transportation.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full and particular account of the trial of DONALD RANKINE who was tried at the High Court of Justiciary on Monday the 3d December, and was found guilty of the crime of robbery for which he was condemned to be executed at Inverary on Friday the 18th of January 1822. Also an account of the trial of Donald M'Kenzie who was sentenced to fourteen years transportation.' The sheet was published by William Cameron of Edinburgh.
Donald Rankine had already been convicted of robbery but here it is reported that there was an error in recording the date of the verdict and where he should be tried and punished. Apparently he is to be tried again in Inverary. Donald McKenzie was convicted of stealing a gold ring and seal from a man, Lawrence Scotland, in Edinburgh. He was sentenced to 14 years' transportation.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A full and particular account of the trial of DONALD RANKINE who was tried at the High Court of Justicary on Monday the 3d December, and was found guilty of the crime of robbery for which he was condemned to be executed at Inverary on Friday the 18th of January 1822. Also an account of the trial of Donald McKenzie who was sentenced to fourteen years transportation.' This sheet was printed for William Cameron and sold for the sum of a one penny per sheet.
Donald Rankine had already been found guilty but was undergoing a separate sentencing due to an irregularity at the original trial. He was sentenced to execution for theft. Donald McKenzie was sentenced to transportation for the theft of gold personal effects. This type of broadside is the precursor to modern newspapers. They quickly, if not always accurately and originally, reported news and then were intended to be discarded. They had to appeal to wide audience in as overt a manner as possible to make them profitable. As a result they are often headline grabbing, with emphasis placed on the more sensational aspects of stories.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the trial and sentence, before the High Court of the Justiciary this day, Thursday, of James Sime for house-breaking & theft, who is to be executed at Edinburgh, on the 15th August next.'
According to this account, Sime broke into four different houses in Edinburgh and stole from each a number of items of clothing. Although the jury found him guilty of housebreaking and theft, they recommended him to mercy. This request was disregarded by the judge, however, and Sime was sentenced to be executed. However shocking it is to a modern-day audience, execution was the chosen punishment for many apparently petty crimes in nineteenth-century Scotland. There is no record that this execution actually took place.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A particular account of the Trial and Sentence of PETER HENDERSON, late Letter Stamper in the General Post Office, Edinburgh, who is to be Executed here on Wednesday the 16th July, 1828, for abstracting money from Letters.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh and is dated the 9th June, 1828.
Also included in the National Library of Scotland's collection is a broadside featuring Peter Henderson's lamentation, in which he expresses deep regret for his crime. This particular broadside, however, details Henderson's trial and offers an interesting insight into crime and punishment in early nineteenth-century Scotland. For what would be considered by today's standards a fairly petty offence, the crime of stealing money from letters was punishable by death.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JAMES CAMPBELL, who is to be Executed, at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 19th January 1825, for Assault and Robbery, in broad day light in Nicolson Street in Edinburgh on the 17th of August last.' This sheet was published by James McLean, in Edinburgh, and would have cost a penny to buy.
James Campbell was convicted of robbery and murder, after having mugged and struck John Horner in Nicolson Street, Edinburgh. Campbell asserted that he was unaware of the assault but had robbed Horner of personal effects, in the hope that a lenient sentence would be passed. The judges, however, felt that daylight robbery was an aggravated offence and no witnesses could be produced to attest his social behaviour. In common with other reports of the time, the judge's comments on repentance and making peace with God were reported, as was the prisoners grief. This sort of moralising would have reached a wide audience due to the public way in which broadsides were read.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of GEORGE LAIDLAW, who is to be Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 29th of October, 1823, for the crime of Housebreaking and Theft.' It was published by Allan Grant of Edinburgh in 1823, and priced at one penny.
The structure of broadside trial reports can vary quite considerably. In this example, the evidence given by the various witnesses is transcribed in the first person with very little additional editorial comment, so that the report reads almost like a play script. The report gives us an interesting cross-section of Glasgow society when Glasgow was a modest-sized town. It seems that various witnesses, like the Jewish jeweller Moses Solomon, Stewart the shopman, and even Laidlaw the defendant, were already quite familiar with each other.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime reports begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of John Douglas, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 28th of January, 1824. For Highway Robbery, between Portobello and Musselburgh on November last.'
John Douglas was convicted of robbing an acquaintance, John Anderson, of sixteen shillings and a silver watch, after knocking him to the ground and kneeling on his chest. Although highway robbery was a capital crime, the jury recommended mercy. Broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection report the same recommendation in other, similar cases. It appears that Scottish juries may have had more sympathy with highway robbers than with murderers.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: ' An account of the Trial and Sentence of John Wilson and Duncan Fraser, two young men belonging to Edinburgh, who are to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 28th, day of January, 1824. for breaking into the Shop of James Smyth Taylor, St. Mary's Wynd Edinburgh.' The report was published in December 1823, probably in Edinburgh, and priced at one penny.
The report implies that the two convicts were somewhat taken aback by their sentence. We are told that both were repeat offenders who confessed to the crime, and 'appeared very confident' in court, but who paid 'more serious attention' as the case progressed. When the sentence of death was announced, the two young men 'shed tears plentifully'. It is possible that having stood trial before, the two did not expect such a dreadful sentence. It is also likely that their previous crimes counted against them in the judge's eyes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of William M'Toague, and John M'Crevie, who are to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 19th May next 1824, for Issuing Forged Notes, and for Housebreaking and Theft.' This broadside was published in Edinburgh by Robert McMillan and sold for one penny.
A rather detailed account of the court trials which led to the sentencing to death of McTeague and McCrevie. McTeague's daughter, Margaret, was also found guilty, although she was apparently unaware the notes were forged, and sentenced to 14 years' transportation. She was probably sent to Australia. In the other case, McCrevie and some acquaintances broke into an old man's house, assaulted him and stole from him.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of William Titting or Knox, and John M'Kenzie or M'Kinlay, who are to be executed at Edinburgh, on the 15th day of December next, for breaking into a house in Charlotte Square.' This broadside was sold for a penny and was published by the booksellers, probably of Edinburgh.
These two men were sentenced to death for breaking into Captain John Forbes Drummond of Hawthornden's home in Edinburgh's affluent New Town, and stealing 'a great quantity of articles'. They were arrested, along with an unnamed woman, as they made their getaway down Fishmarket Close off the Royal Mile. The woman was sentenced to transportation, probably to Australia. Execution for housebreaking was abolished by 1861, and transportation was formally abolished in 1868.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'The Trial and Sentence of William Adams, alias Reid, for the Robbery of Michael Pirnie, who is to be executed at Edinburgh on 6th January, 1830.' The reoprt was published on 1st December 1829.
This broadside gives a brief summary of Adams' trial, including the indictment and Michael Pirnie's statement to the courtroom. Although it appears that the jury, whilst finding him guilty, recommended leniency, the Lord Justice Clerk chose to sentence the accused to be executed. A brief but insightful biography of Adams is provided at the end of the sheet. Finally, a broadside detailing the execution of William Adams is also to be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A full true and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of William Gilchrist, George Gilchrist, and James Brown, who were tried before the High Court of Justiciary on Wednedsay 13th July, on a charge of abstracting a box from the Prince Regent coach from Glasgow to Edinburgh, containing L.5712 6s on the 24th March last, when George Gilchrist was sentenced to be executed on the 3d of August next - William Gilchrist and Brown were dismissed from the bar.' This sheet was published by Murdoch McRae. Using an 'L' was an old-fashioned way of writing the £ sign, so the amount stolen was £5712, which would be worth approximately £280,000 today.
Priced at a halfpenny, this broadside report tells of a sensational robbery of a stagecoach, involving the highwayman dressing up as a woman to commit his ingenious crime. Disguised as a woman, the robber, George Gilchrist, used a chisel to break into the coach?s boot, whereupon he then prised open the bank box to steal the money. The aim of ?the bloody code? (known as ?the criminal code? in Scotland) was to protect property above all else, so George Gilchrist was sentenced to death.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JAMES MITCHELL and JOHN SHARP, who were tried before the High Court of Justiciary on Monday last, 11th July, and who are to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 17th August, 1825, for Highway Robbery.' This was published by Alexander Turnbull of Edinburgh, in 1825.
This broadside describes how a carter and horse dealer was forcibly robbed of £28 by two colleagues while returning from a horse-fair. It is interesting that the jury, on finding the accused guilty, recommend mercy. It is often perceived that there was an insatiable appetite for public executions in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland, but it may be that only certain crimes fuelled the popular desire for revenge. In this case the decision to execute is a purely judicial one, taken by the judges against the jury's wishes.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of WATSON, the Radical, who fled from this country in the year 1820, and was to be Hanged in America on the 8th of February last, for the crimes of Housebreaking and Theft, with an account of his life since he landed in that country'. It was published by William Carse and probably sold for one penny.
This broadside takes the form of a letter 'received in Glasgow from Baltimore, dated Feb. 23d, 1822'. It details the activities of a man by the name of Watson, 'the Spafield leader of the London Radicals', who fled to America in 1820. The late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries were a time of great political and social unrest in Britain, when radicals and their leaders were treated harshly by the law. Watson was very likely fleeing for his life when he landed in America. The irony is, once in America, he found himself sentenced to death for two fairly minor offences.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, the report continues: ' . . . convicted of Breaking into, and Robbing the dwelling house of Alex. Arniel, farmer at Caplin, in the parish of Neilston, on the 12th or 13th of November,1819.' The sheet was published in December 1820, by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside reports on the court case that occurred as a result of a break-in at a farm in Neilston, Renfrewshire. Covering their faces with red handkerchiefs, three men burst into the farm building, ordered the owner to go upstairs if he valued his life, and ransacked the house. Due to confusion among the witnesses, however, only Maxwell and Hamilton were found guilty, with a not proven verdict being returned for Muir and Donelly. As the rule of law during this turbulent era mainly existed to protect property, the two guilty men received the death sentence - though it appears that only Maxwell was executed, after confessing that he alone was responsible for the crime.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Of JAMES DUNLOP of the Five Alls tavern, Glasgow, and JAMES HUNTER, for Stealing above 350 Pieces of Muslin from a respectable Warehouse, and JAMES HARMER for Resetting the Stolen Goods. The Trial took place before the High Court of Justiciary on Monday last, and occupied the Court till two o'clock on Tuesday morning, when Dunlop and Harmer were found guilty, and sentence was immediately passed upon them.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside tells the complicated tale of how a group of people worked together to steal pieces of muslin from a warehouse in Glasgow - 'sewed muslin' being a major industry of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It appears that the accused operated between Glasgow and Belfast, highlighting the close links that existed between Scotland and Ireland. Dunlop and Harmer were found guilty, while Hunter received a not proven verdict and was admonished. Although, frustratingly, the sheet does not specify what sentences Dunlop and Harmer received, the other gang members were sentenced to transportation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation begins: 'The sorrowful Lamentations of William Thomson, who is now lying under the awful sentence of Death, in the Calton Jail, and who is to be executed on Thursday the 1st of March, at Dalkeith, with an account of his behaviour since his condemnation.'
As well as a prose account, there is also a ballad here, written in the first person, giving a more subjective take on Thomson's state of mind. Two other men were sentenced to death (for robbing a farmer) along with Thomson, John Fram and James Thomson. The latter two men were given a reprieve however and, although it is not mentioned here, other broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection tell us this was because they informed police about a murder Thomson had apparently committed two years earlier. Thomson was the only man ever to have been hung at Dalkeith.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.'An account of the notorious WILLIAM PROBERT, and Six other unfortunate Men, who are all to be Executed in London on Monday Morning next, for the crimes of Horsestealing and Forgery. Probert was the companion of the late notorious Thurtel and Hunt, the horrid Murderers, the former of whom was also executed for the bloody murder of their companion, William Weare, in a lonely part of the country.' The sheet was published in 1825 by John Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside relates the sad end that befell William Probert, who was executed in London for stealing a horse and committing forgery. Probert is infamous for his involvement in 'The Elstree Murder' of 1823, which is mentioned in the introduction to this sheet. After turning King's Evidence against his comrades, Thurtel and Hunt, Probert and his wife became outcasts from society - hence the desperate crimes which led to his ultimate undoing. Executed outside Newgate on the 20th of June 1825, there was a general feeling that Probert had at last received what he deserved.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court report begins: 'An account of the proceedings of the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which opened at Glasgow on Tuesday last, when / JAMES DOLLAN / was sentenced to be Executed on the 7th of June next, for a daring Robbery on the Old Bridge of Glasgow.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
John Muir was a prolific court proceedings publisher in Glasgow who was often involved in stiff competition with other Glasgow publishers. These later reports, however, have a much sleeker, almost list-like appearance. The only prose on this sheet concerns the transgressor in the headlines, James Dollan. The other cases heard are named and their verdicts given.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'THE LAST SPEECH, CONFESSION, AND DYING DECLARATION OF RICHARD BROXUP, Who was executed at the west End of the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 11th of February, 1801, for the Crimes of picking Locks and Theft.' It was first published by J. Morren of Edinburgh and re-published by Thomas Duncan, Saltmarket, Glasgow.
Richard Broxup was executed for crimes that by today's standards would seem fairly minor: he was charged with opening a chest or chest of drawers in three separate properties, and with stealing clothing from a fourth. The penalty of death for such an apparently petty offence was not unusual in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland. In fact, execution was the usual punishment for those caught stealing or housebreaking.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This moral lesson in rhyming couplets has a prose introduction that begins: 'Giving a sorrowful account of his fourteen years' transportation to Botany Bay, New South Wales, in February 1808, and his return home to London, in March 1st 1823, with a serious word of advice to all young men and women.' The poem then opens: 'My loving countrymen pray lend an ear / Unto these relations I bring you to hear.' It was published by John Smith of Edinburgh.
Poems or ballads designed for moral instruction were a common subject of broadsides. Often they would be attributed to a condemned, repentant prisoner although probably written by an anonymous journalist. In this case it seems more likely that John Revel did have personal input, as the details of his life in Australia are very specific, and the poetic style is less formulaic than in other moral poems and lamentations of the time. This is a good example of how broadsides can provide insight into various levels and experiences of past British society.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution notice begins: 'THE LAST / SPEECH, / Confession and dying words of JAMES DORMAND, who was execute at Perth, on Friday the 31st of May 1793 for Four crimes of Highway Robbery'.
This text gives very little factual information about this case, but does go on at length about the social and spiritual evils of crime. Often these situations were seen as an opportunity to lecture society on their morals and behaviour. Two noticeable feature of reports of this time, which are also displayed here, are the Irish origins of Dormand, and the link between his education and lack of parental respect.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This account begins: 'An account of the last moments of William Thomson, who was executed at Dalkeith on Thursday last with the information of Thomson & Fram of the murder of Ramsay Inglis, a collier at Cowpits two years ago, whereby two thieves named Salmon and Merrilees are apprehended.'
The rest of the information in this report has been extracted from the 'Edinburgh Weekly Chronicle' newspaper, of Wednesday 7th March, 1827. It was common for the publishers of broadsides to take information from other sources, most often newspapers, but sometimes other broadsides. Nowadays we are protected by copyright legislation, but in the mid-nineteenth century no such laws were in place. The immediacy of news reporting meant that whoever got the story to the press first made the most profit, which is much the same situation as today.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account taken from this day's Star. of the affecting behaviour and sorrowful situation of Thomas Black, who is to be Executed next Wednesday, when the respite for Reid was announced to him. Also, the sorrowful Lamentation on this awful occasion.' The report was copied from the Edinburgh Star of Friday, 5th December 1823
The tone of this report is clearly intended to provide moral instruction for its readership. The opening prose passage, describing Thomas Black's reflections on his imminent execution, stresses how keen he is to admit his sins and gain Christian forgiveness before he dies. The subsequent 'lamentation' which is almost certainly not the work of Black, but of an anonymous newspaper or broadside reporter, re-emphasises Black's contrition and warns others of following in his footsteps.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This ballad is prefaced with a short prose introduction which reads: 'Lamentation of PETER HENDERSON, late Letter Stamper in the General Post Office, Edinburgh, and who is to be Executed here on Wednesday the 16th July, 1828, for abstracting Money from and Destroying the Letters.' The ballad begins: 'O all who hear of my sad state, / Oh pity my dire case'. The broadside was published by William Henry of Edinburgh and priced at one penny.
A capital crime could inspire a whole series of broadsides, covering different aspects of the case such as the circumstances of the crime, the trial, the execution and the condemned's alleged last words. Lamentations also sometimes featured. These were poems written partly as warnings to the public not to follow a life of crime. Although most were probably composed by anonymous broadside journalists, they were usually written with the condemned criminal as narrator, and involved, as in this example, the criminal dreading his or her fate, repenting and asking for God's forgivness, as well as offering dire warnings to the audience.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation begins: 'PETER HENDERSON, late Letter Stamper in the General Post Office, Edinburgh, and who is to be Executed here on Wednesday the 16th July, 1828, for abstracting Money from and Destroying the Letters.' This broadside was printed in Edinburgh for William Henry, and was priced at one penny.
The National Library of Scotland's collection also includes a broadside detailing the trial and sentence of Peter Henderon. Here, however, we have a lamentation attributed to Henderson, in which he expresses deep regret for his misdemeanours and begs for the mercy of Jesus. Whether these words were written or uttered by Henderon is not known for sure. The highly repentent and religious tone of this lamentation is found in the vast majority of last speeches that were printed.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This execution report begins: 'A Full and Particular account of Robert M'Kinlay, William Buchanan, Robert Hunter Guthrie, and Alexander Forbes, who were Executed at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 3d of November, 1819, for housebreaking and theft.' A note at the foot of the sheet states that it was 'Printed for John Muir, who traded from an address in Prince's Street, Glasgow.
This broadside reports on Glasgow's first quadruple execution. McKinlay and Buchanan were cotton-spinners from Glasgow, who broke into Bothwell Castle and stole various items of gold and silver. Although it was Buchanan's first offence, McKinlay was said to be a career criminal. Guthrie and Forbes were described as old offenders, who were 'given to idleness and thieving'. Both hailing from Paisley, Forbes was a cloth-lapper and Guthrie was a weaver. While the punishment will look severe to a modern audience, the 'Criminal Code' (the 'Bloody Code') that existed in Scotland from 1650 to 1850 meant that property was safeguarded at all costs - hence the death sentence. Thomas Young was the executioner.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Life and Memoirs of James Moffat, who was sentenced at Edinburgh to be Executed, and who died in the Calton Jail, on Wednesday se'ennight, containing an account of his wicked career, and Robberies in Britain and abroad ; also, an account of the terrible agony he experienced before his Death, and in the course of the night, during which his dreadful exclamations terrified those around him ; he was a native of Edinburgh.' The name of the publisher is not included on this sheet.
The man sometimes known as James Moffat, is the protean vagabond who is the subject of this gothic horror broadside. A man of many names and roles, it seems that his whole life was composed of frauds, robberies and other illegal enterprises - hence the sheet's comparison to that master criminal of disguises, Deacon Brodie. Seeking an explanation for his deviant behaviour, the anonymous writer analyses Moffat's early life and concludes that it was his alienation from God that led to his fall. Moffat died mysteriously in Calton Prison while awaiting execution.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise salesThis crime report begins: 'Relative to the Case of these unfortunate young Boys, CHARLES McLAREN, THOMAS GRIERSON, and JAMES McEWAN, who were lately Sentenced to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 12th February, 1823, for Housebreaking and Theft.' The bulk of information for this report was sourced from the 'Edinburgh Weekly Journal'. This sheet was printed in Edinburgh for James McLean.
The 'Edinburgh Weekly Journal' was established in Edinburgh in 1756, and continued well into the mid-nineteenth century. At this time it was based in Hanover Street, in the wealthy and fashionable area of the New Town in Edinburgh. It was common for information to be copied from other newspaper sources. Newspapers at this time did not have a wide circulation due to their high price and the dry nature of the information they contained. Cribbing reports allowed broadside publishers to topical information to an avid audience both quickly and cheaply.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'CONFESSION / Of JAMES WILSON, who was Hanged at Glasgow on Wednesday last, 4th June, 1823, giving an account of upwards of 30 different Robberies committed by him in Glasgow, Paisley, Greenock, and other parts of the country; the whole communicated by Wilson to one of the Ministers of this City, a few days before his Execution.' This account has been taken from the 'Glasgow Chronicle' and was printed as a broadside by John Muir of Glasgow.
The confession was sent to the editor of the newspaper by a minister, James Stuart, who was attending James Wilson or McLusky in prison. In his covering letter he suggests that 'it might serve to deter others'. In many of the broadsides published in Scotland during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Catholicism was portrayed in a somewhat negative light. In Wilson's confession for instance he mentions his parents religious persuasion before discussing their 'unhappy and disagreeable life'. Scotland was largely Presbyterian at this time, and signs of religious intolerance were in evidence.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.