This address begins: 'IN first place, SIR, we humbly crave, / That You this poor Adress receive: / Do not disdain it, tho its Fashion / Be not like others of the Nation'. The sheet is dated 1689.
When King James VII of Scotland and II of England was deposed in 1689, the Presbyterian church was relieved to have the Catholic king removed. Although King William of Orange (r. 1689-1702) restored Presbyterianism as the Established Church in Scotland in 1690, a section of its fold, followers of Richard Cameron (d.1680), were not happy that the 1638 Covenant had not also been restored. They left to form the Reformed Presbyterian Church, still sometimes referred to today as the Cameronian Church. This satirical broadside anticipates that move.
The National Library of Scotland's online catalogue attributes this piece to Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722). Known as the 'burgess bard', he had a prolific output in the late seventeenth and early nineteenth centuries.This ironic and satirical piece begins: 'To His HIGHNESS the Prince of Orange, / The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the PARISHONERS and INHABITANTS of the Famous TOWN of LINTON SUBMETRAPOLITAN of TIVIOTDALE.' The first line of the verse runs: 'Vitrorious SIR, still faithful to thy Word'. No printer or date of publication have been given.
The National Library of Scotland's catalogue attributes this verse to Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722), a prolific author of humorous and satirical broadsides in the early part of the eighteenth century. The piece is a very tongue-in-cheek plea to the king, on behalf of the people of Linton, which is a village in Teviotdale, in the Scottish Borders. They ask King William III (r. 1689-1702) to make their Duke put a clock on the church steeple, and arrange for the street to be mended and cleaned, amongst other things.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'HAIL Miracle of Monarchs who resigns, / Thy Crown, thy Kingdoms, and thy Golden Mines, / Mocking the royal Pageantry of State, / Ambitions rather to be good, than great'. No date or publication details are given, although the National Library of Scotland's online catalogue has Alexander Pennicuik as the author.
This is a satirical poem on Philip V, Philip Anjou, King of Spain (1683-1746), who at the time (mid-1720s) was pursuing a reconciliation with Charles VI, Holy Roman emperor (r. 1711-40), in an anti-French alliance which would raise Jacobite hopes of an invasion of Great Britain. The poet, Alexander Pennecuik (1652-1722), was prolific during the first half of the eighteenth century and the National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of his pieces.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This poem begins: 'I look'd far back into other years, and lo! in bright array, / I saw, as in a dream, the forms of ages pass away.' A note underneath the title states that 'Copies of this splendid production can always be obtained at the POET'S BOX, 80 London Street, Glasgow'. A further note at the foot of the sheet states that it was published on Saturday the 27th of October, 1877.
Written in a lofty and epic style, this broadside poem tells of the tragic fate that befell Mary Stuart, Queen of Scots (1542-87). The daughter of James V of Scotland and Mary of Guise, Mary Stuart made the fatal mistake of laying a claim to the English throne - a blunder that ultimately led to the executioner's platform. The poem offers its audience a condensed version of Mary's life story, recounting her childhood in France and turbulent adulthood in Scotland and England. Mary's tragedy can be viewed as one of circumstance, since she was a Catholic who tried to ascend to the English throne during the Reformation. Elizabeth I (1533-1603) had Mary executed in 1587, when it seemed that England was in danger of suffering a Spanish invasion. This work was composed by Henry Glassford Bell (1803-74), a poet and man of letters from Glasgow.
The Poet?s Box in Glasgow operated from 1849 to 1911. Matthew Leitch was the proprietor at 6 St. Andrew Lane?s, a narrow street on the south side of Gallowgate, from 1850 to 1858. His son William Munsie Leitch worked at the same address from 1859 to 1865 and at varous addresses in London Street until 1911. Many of the broadsides published by the Glasgow Poet?s Box were dated and some carried advertisements, not just for printed items but also for shoe blacking and ?soap for lovers?! Like the other ?boxes? in Dundee and Edinburgh, the Glasgow one sold love songs, sea shanties, parodies and dialogues. It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one in Paisley in the early 1850s owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation begins: 'The Tnicklarian Doctor's Lamentation For the Absence of his Majesty King George, and the old Antient Parliament'. 'Tincklarian' or 'tinclarian' is a Scots word meaning 'tinker-like'. A note at the bottom of the sheet reads: 'Edinburgh, Printed for the author R.S, and to be Sold at his Dwelling-House at the head of the College-Wynd'.
Unfortunately, a date has not been included on this particular broadside. The doctor's lamentation, however, is most likely directed towards the protestant ruler, King George I (r. 1714-27). The first Hanoverian king, he was criticised by the British people for not learning English and for his apparent allegiances to Hanover over Britain. The author of this piece suggests that if the King visited Scotland, his presence would be rewarded with the loyalty of the people. This was a direct criticism of the King's system of governing, whereby the administration of the British Isles was left in the hands of his government.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'The true Copy of a Paper stuck upon the D. of M----'s Gate at St James's, on the 8th of March, being the Day of her Majesty's Accession to the Crown.' No publication details have been included on this sheet.
This broadside is referring to the accession to the throne in 1702 of Queen Anne, daughter of King James II of Great Britain and VII of Scotland. During the Glorious Revolution (1688-9), Anne supported her sister and brother-in-law, Mary and William, in their successful efforts to overthrow King James II. Although there were tensions in the relationship between Anne and the newly installed monarchs, Queen Mary and King William III, she went on to inherit the throne upon their deaths.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An Account of some of the Festivities which will take place in Edinburgh and Vicinity, on Thursday the 28th June, 1838, being the day appointed for the Coronation of Our Most Gracious Sovereign, QUEEN VICTORIA FIRST.' The sheet was published by Menzies, who is known to have had offices in Edinburgh.
The sheet begins by reporting that there are to be fireworks let off from Edinburgh Castle, with a bonfire being lit simultaneously at the top of Arthur's Seat - a large volcanic mound just west of the centre of Edinburgh. All shops and businesses were to be closed for the day, and the College Museum, 'and various other Public Institutions' were to be opened to allow the public a rare glimpse of their collections. Various banquets and celebrations are also mentioned. In another celebratory gesture, the newly-completed pier at Granton, dedicated to His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, was to be opened.
Finally, there will be prayers 'for a long and prosperous reign of her Majesty', at South Leith Church, followed by children's choir singing. At the bottom of the sheet a 'Grand Cricket Match' to be held on Coronation Day  is advertised.This report opens: 'An account of his Majesty's Embarkation for England, at the Queensferry, on Thursday the 29th day of August, 1822 / Also his Majesty's / Farewell Adress / to the Scottish Nation, which he ordered his Secretary to deliver to the Lords at Edinburgh, a short time before he left that City.' The sheet was published by John Muir in Glasgow.
King George IV (reigned - 1820-30) left Edinburgh and attended a farewell reception at Hopetoun House in South Queensferry. Here 'an assemblage of most of the persons eminent for rank or abilities, in Edinburgh and West Lothian' were present. In the address the King showers praise on Scotland and its people. The sheet also mentions that, while in the capital, King George sat for his portrait with Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823).
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This political notice begins: '"What's your opinion of the Corn Laws, Albert?" said the Queen, to her spouse : "you ought to be a counsellor to me, in governing affairs of this mighty Empire"'. It was published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh.
Corn laws were introduced into Britain in 1815 to try and protect the extortionate price of grain. The demand for grain was high, as imports were blocked by the Napoleonic Wars and so producers could charge pretty much what they wanted. The poor and those who lived in industrial areas, and so were forced to buy food rather than grow their own, found this particularly restrictive. The laws were repealed in 1846 by Robert Peel, but only after violent opposition and many failed potato and corn harvests.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This broadside begins: 'Coronation of His Majesty / Which took place at London on Thursday last, the 19th July, 1821, with an account of the non-admittance of the Queen.' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
As stated in the introduction to this broadside, Caroline of Brunswick (1768-1821), the estranged wife of King George IV (1762-1830), was refused admittance to the coronation. Banned from the royal court in 1811, Caroline moved overseas and did not return to Britain until her husband, the Prince Regent, was declared King in 1820. She returned in anticipation of becoming Queen, but was met with the offer of a bribe to remain in exile. After Caroline refused to accept his bribe, the King unsuccessfully tried to divorce her. The final shock of being refused admittance to the coronation, is thought to have contributed to her demise the following month. Despite being shunned by the King for most of their marriage, Caroline always proved a popular figure with the British public.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice continues: 'For His Sacred Majesty, CHARLES, the third Monarch of Great Britain, His happy Arrival at WHITEHALL. / By a Loyal Member of His Majesties Army. / Edinburgh, June 13. 1660.'
Charles II, returned to Great Britain in 1660 to reclaim the British throne by right, as the British commonwealth and protectorate dissolved. He arrived in Whitehall, London, on the day of his thirtieth birthday, 29th May 1660, to take British crown. His return was welcomed and these proclamations of congratulations were published all over the country. Scotland first declared Charles king in 1650, upon his first return to Great Britain, and so this must have been an especially joyous sheet to publish.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.