This broadside notice announces a procession of shoemakers that is to take place in Kirkcaldy, on Midsummer's Day, 1822. After identifying the time, date and place of the meeting and procession, the sheet proceeds to list all the people who will be taking part in this procession. Although the name of the publisher is not included, the sheet was printed in Edinburgh and cost one penny. As this procession took place on the 20th of June, 1822, the sheet was probably published earlier that month.
Processions by the various trades' associations used to be a familiar part of Scottish life. Judging by the hotchpotch, regal nature of the people who appeared in this pageant of shoemakers, there may have been a slightly subversive element about this procession. Indeed, the saturnalian nature of the Midsummer Solstice is linked to the anti-establishment festivals that were known as the 'Lords of Misrule' days. These celebrations allowed the lower classes to become 'rulers' for one day, which might explain why so many kings, princes and lords appear in this procession. Martyred on the 25th of October, AD 287, St Crispin is the patron saint of shoemakers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'The ancient and modern history of King Crispin, with a particular account of the plan and order of the grand procession, time of meeting, &c.' This sheet was published by R. Martin of South Niddry Street (which was located in the Cowgate, Edinburgh) and would have been sold for a penny.
St Crispin was and still is the patron saint of shoemakers, who is alleged to have been martyred on the 25th of October during the third century A.D. During the middle ages most guilds, trades and professions adopted a patron saint, and celebrated their martyrdom by taking an annual holiday and processing with the saint's image. This sheet informs the public of the shoemakers' holiday and the route of their procession.
Crispin was of noble Roman lineage but fled from his home during the Emperor Diocletian's persecution of the Christian faith. Crispin, however, continued to preach but to support himself he made shoes, mainly for the poor. It is this angle of Crispin's story which allowed him to be adopted as the patron saint of shoemakers.This public notice continues: 'SONS OF CRISPIN, / FROM / Holyrood-House / TO THE / Calton Convening Hall, / REGENT BRIDGE, / ON THURSDAY, 25th October 1821.'
St Cripsin is the patron saint of shoemakers, due to the prominent part shoemaking plays in his life story and preaching. He was martyred on the 25th October, sometime in the 3rd century A.D. As a result, his processional day, organised by the shoemakers, cobblers and cordwainers' guild, and taken as holiday by them, occurs on this day. This sheet reveals the details of the procession held in Edinburgh, and suggests that there was some opposition to it being held.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside story begins: 'An account of a horrible dispute which took place between a Cobler, and his Wife the day after King Crispian's procession; For the Cobler had that day got tipinto his fob the price of heelingand soling a pair of shoes and went into a public house in the Grasmarket and where the wife catched him with an account of what happened.' A note at the foot of the sheet states it was 'PRINTED FOR JOHN CAMERON', whose press was located in Glasgow during the 1820s.
Employing martial terminology to report on a domestic quarrel that allegedly took place between a cobbler and his wife, this gossipy broadside is really a humorous story which has been written to entertain its audience. That said, however, a censorious tone concerning how people should behave lends an element of moral instruction to the tale. The story centres around the seemingly universal theme of a man going to a pub in order to forget all his woes, only to have his leisure time interrupted by an angry wife. The opening reference to King Crispian is probably intended to be a humorous comparison between this pub-frequenting cobbler and Saint Crispin of Soissons (d. 287), who was the patron saint of shoemakers.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.