This report begins: 'A full and particular Account of some late Engagements with the Rebels, in which they lost several hundred Men, copied from Letters, lately received from Gentlemen in the Sutherland Fencibles, with many other particulars respecting the Proceedings of his Majesty's Forces against the Rebels'. A letter written by an Officer stationed in Wexford, to a friend in Edinburgh, has also been included. Whilst the date of July 1789 has been handwritten near the top of the sheet, the events recounted in this broadside occurred in 1798.
The rebels in this instance were the United Irishmen who fought during the Irish Rebellion of 1798. Formed in 1791 by Theobald Wolfe Tone, the United Irishmen's ultimate goal was independence from Britain. Although in the initial stages the aim was to achieve change through legislative reform, a revolutionary zeal inspired by the French Revolution soon took over. During the 1798 Rebellion, the rebels achieved success in County Wexford only to be defeated soon after by British troops at Vinegar Hill (June 1798).
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Verse 1 begins: 'LET Frenchmen threat invasion great, / And a' their venom shaw, man'. The text preceding this reads: 'A SONG - - - - - - - - - Tune, Killicrankie'. An explanation of the Scots words and references have been included at the bottom of the sheet. No further publication details have been included.
The inclusion, at the bottom of the sheet, of the translations for many of the Scots words, suggests that this song was not just for circulation in Scotland, but also in England, Wales and possibly Ireland. This is further supported by the fact that many of the veiled references to Scotland's military heroes have had to be further explained! This sort of attempted translation is not at all unusual and can be found on other sheets held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This broadside was probably published during the Napoleonic period, when fear of invasion from France was prevalent.
This style of text, with its implicit political propaganda, would not only have made for compelling entertainment, but would also perhaps have stimulated political thought, reasoning and debate.This poem begins: 'WHAUR Neidpath's wa's wi' pride look doon / Upon a guid auld burgh toun, / A crankie cratur' leev'd langsyne, / Amang the guid auld freen's o' mine'. The text preceding this reads: 'RECITATION / AS RECITED BY A. ROBB, LATE OF THE 42nd REGIMENT / SCOTCH RECITER AND STORY TELLER'. The body of text is contained in a decorative woodcut border.
The 42nd regiment, original the 43rd until 1749, is better known today as the 'Black Watch'. The regiment's history stretches back to 1739, although it has undergone many changes and affiliations since then, and was closely associated with the Earls of Crawford. Unfortunately A. Robb of the 42nd is now largely untraceable, although this little document is an interesting testament to his skills and a brief history of his career.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This lamentation begins: 'As dandering on the shoar of Leith, / Twa Wives wi Greeting shaw'd their Teeth, / Oh one says ane o're gane wi' Grief, / we've oft our Head, / Where shall we gang now for Relief, / Sin Sarah's Dead.'
Tha National Library of Scotland's broadside collection also includes an elegy lamenting the death of 'Colonel Sara', who died in Leith on the 28th August, 1718. It seems very likely that Captain Sarah and Colonel Sara are the same person. Whilst little or nothing is known about this rather colourful and courageous character today, Captain Sarah must have been a popular and well-respected figure to warrant two lamentations.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information often for entertainment, such as memorials and eulogies. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Although many of the people are now lost to researchers, their stories offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in.This ballad begins: 'Most high omniscient great, dread Lord above, / The source of wisdom, God of Peace and Love, / Deign to assist thy Servant's feeble Pen, / Now writing of the worthy, best of Men'. At the bottom we are told that the piece was composed by 'the Bearer, William Catton', who was an ex-foot-soldier in General Folliott's regiment.
The Siege of Minorca took place in 1756, at the start of the Seven Years War, which pitted Britain, Prussia and Hanover against Austria, France, Russia, Saxony and Sweden. Sir William Blakeney (1672-1761), Lieutenant Governor of Minorca, was forced to surrender the island to the French after a famous defence. The author of this piece says he served there for eight years. It was not uncommon for pedlars to publish their own verse, and this is an excellent example.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This broadside begins: 'HUY and CRY FOR APPREHENDING GEORGE FACHNEY Professor of Gaming and one of the subaltern Officers in Collonel Caldwell's new levied Regiment of Robbers / By John Dalgliesh, Lockman of Edinburgh.'
Dalglish, or Dalgliesh (there are two different spellings on the broadside), was 'lockman' or hangman of Edinburgh, and this versified offer of a reward for George Fachney's arrest, 'alive or dead', is appropriately attributed to him. It was actually written by Alexander Pennicuik (d.1730), a burgess of Edinburgh who wrote poetry in the style of Allan Ramsay (1686-1758).
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.Following on from the title, this broadside story continues: 'Showing how one Richard Middleton was taken before the Mayor of the City he was in, for using Cards in Church during Divine Service: being a Droll, Merry, Humorous Account of an Odd affair that happened to a Private Soldier in the 60th Regiment of Foot.' There are no publication details included on this sheet.
This clever and light-hearted broadside story is really a religious sermon disguised as a humorous tall tale. Briefly, a private soldier is taken before the city major for allegedly playing cards, under the camouflage of pretending to read a Bible while sitting in church. Warned that he faces a harsh punishment unless he can explain himself, the quick-thinking soldier shows the major how he reads the bible by identifying each card with a biblical story. This fictional story concludes with the major giving the soldier some money and beer, after telling him he is the cleverest man he has ever met.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.This ballad begins: 'THE glitter of the richly embroider'd Colours waving in the breeze. / The unclouded Sun, shedding a mild lustre over all these. / The gradually swelling back ground, covered with shady trees, / On, or under, which sat many a spectator, more or less at ease.' It was sourced from the 'Glasgow Courier' of the 26th May, 1795.
It was common practice for broadside publishers to source their material from the newspapers of the day. With no copyright law in place, original works could be reproduced at will with no obligation to acknowledge or seek permission from the author. It is worth noting that broadsides, mainly due to their affordability, reached a far larger audience than the heavily-taxed, and therefore expensive, newspapers of the day.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.