This piece begins: 'I HEAR a Horse Race lately Run, / Was into Leith where no Man wan / Untill a Highland Ladie / Came up foremost with a Bay Brown, / Which all thought was a Jad'. No publication details have been given.
This well-composed short poem, probably from the early part of the eighteenth century, describes a horse race which took place in Leith, near Edinburgh. Some of the people involved are named; 'Jedburgh' and ''Squair Lyle', but it is the 'Highland Ladie' and his horse who are eulogised. The author takes great delight in pointing out that the arrogant Yorkshireman's gray horse was not as good as it was made out to be and the 'home grown' (and modest) Scots horse and rider won.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'The whole particulars of that fight between Johnston and Pat Holton, which took place yesterday, Monday 7th March 1825, for a heavy sum of money, about 12 miles from Edinburgh.' The name of the broadside publisher is not given, but a note beneath the introduction reads: 'Extracted from the Account given in this day's Edin. Observer.
The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside report of this prizefight that is almost identical to this one apart from the introductions. This is revealing about the way broadside publishers operated. In cases where they sourced material from newspapers, often little attempt was made to paraphrase or adapt the original reports. Immediacy was more important than originality, so two broadside publishers might compete to sell virtually the same words, as in this case. There was no properly regulated or enforced copyright law in Britain until the early twentieth century.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of that Gallant and most Extraordinary BATTLE, that was Fought on Thursday last, 30th day of June, 1825, in the Market Place of Aberdeen, between a Soldier's Wife, and a Dandy young Fish Wife, at that place.' The broadside was published by Alexander Turnbull of Edinburgh and was priced at one penny.
Pre-arranged bareknuckle prizefights between men were not uncommon in early nineteenth-century Scotland, and sometimes inspired broadside reports. The encounter described in this broadside, a spontaneous fist fight between two women, was a far rarer spectacle, as the broadside author points out. The details of the fight are described with great enthusiasm by the author, which lends a certain amount of hypocrisy to the moralising conclusion of the report: 'The condition of both the amazons was truly disgraceful, and said little for the humanity of the spectators.'
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'It is now firmly believed that Sandy was hocussed, as they term it in the fancy, and the wretch who administered the soporific drug is unhesitatingly named through all the sporting houses'. A second report is also included which details the execution of Barney McGuire on June 7th 1830. This sheet, which cost a penny to buy, was printed for William Robertson.
Sensational stories such as these made extremely popular reading and were sold by the thousands. The sheets themselves were intended to be stuck to the wall for general reading and so had to appeal to a wide audience. This sheet features all the sensational aspects of crime reporting. The innocence of a poisoned competitor - a well-known Scottish prizefighter, Sandy MacKay (or M'Kay), references to other dark crimes, the gory details of the crimes and the repentance of a bad character. As with a lot of these reports parts of it have cribbed from other sources. Only one of these, however, has been attributed, the 'Glasgow Free Press'. MacKay or M'Kay was a West Highlander renowned for his strength and courage but was not a first-rate pugilist. His career included two victories over an Irishman Paul Spencer and a previous loss to Simon Byrne prior to their fatal second meeting. Byrne himself died in 1833 after a fight with James 'Deaf' Burke.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside, a hybrid of list and public announcement, begins: 'List of the Horses book'd, That are to run for the Fifty Pound Sterling Plate, set out by the Town of Edinburgh, to be run for on Friday the 14. of June instant, on the Sands at Leith.' After naming the horses, riders and owners, the writer tells his audience the exact time when the race will start. Although the sheet was published in Edinburgh in 1728, the publisher is not identified.
Prior to the building of the docks at Leith in 1806, the sandy beaches that previously existed there had been perfect for horse-racing, recreational pursuits and military parades. Indeed, 'The Caledonian Mercury' (c. 1720) often carried public notices regarding horse-racing events on the beach at Leith. There are records of races on Leith sands going back to 1504. The list of owners here is particularly revealing, with a farmer, lord, earl, knight of the realm and an esquire all competing to win the £50 prize - about £4,700 in today's money. The building of the docks at Leith meant that these traditional horse-racing events were forced to move along the coast to the nearby town of Musselburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This boxing match report begins: 'Milling Extraordinary! / Betwixt G___E W___R, the Aberdeen Champion. And M'D__D, the Royal Exchange, Edinburgh, Hero, on Friday 11th Nov. 1825, at Night!' The sheet was published by James McLean of Edinburgh, and cost a penny. A previous owner of the broadside has attempted to fill in the text which has been left blank (presumably to protect the people's identity).
All three rounds of this boxing match are described in detail although it appears as though there was no clear winner! At this time the boxers, or 'pugilists', would probably have played by Jack Broughton's rules, devised in 1743. Those rules, with only minor changes, governed boxing until they were replaced by the more detailed London Prize Ring rules in 1838.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'LIST OF THE NOBILITY AND GENTRY Who appeared at the BALLS at KELSO RACES, OCTOBER 1783.' What then follows is an alphabetical listing of all those who were in attendance. It was published by James Palmer of Kelso.
It is noteworthy that this sheet was published in Kelso, since many of the broadsides in the National Library of Scotland's collection were produced in the larger urban centres such as Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen and Dundee. James Palmer worked out of Kelso as a printer throughout the 1780s and 1790s, and produced a large number of broadsides - many of which dealt with local themes. This broadside could be considered a precursor to the society pages found in some modern-day newspapers and magazines. There was a great deal of interest, as there is today, in the comings and goings within the elite social circles of the upper classes.
Horse races had been held in the Kelso area since the early 18th century. The Duke of Roxburghe supported the meeting and was responsible for the laying out of a new and genuinely flat course (the present one) on the edge of the town at Berrymoss. Unlike other race meetings such as those at Leith and Paisley, Kelso races did not attract massive crowds, being generally confined to the landed classes. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This news report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account, of the Great Battle between JOHNSON and HALTON, on Monday the 7th March, 1825, in a Field, 12 Miles west of Edinburgh, for Fifty Pounds Sterling.' The broadside does not carry the name of the publisher or the place of publication.
The striking thing about this account of a bareknuckle fight is its vivid use of colloquial expressions. These are numerous, but examples include the description of Halton as 'an ugly carrotty cropped Potatoe', the substitution of 'claret' for 'blood', and references to various parts of the body as 'smottock', 'puddingbag' and 'dexter ogle'. The spectators' disappointment with the fight is also memorably phrased: 'It was hunted that they had seen a better mill between a brace of haddy wives'. Halton was born in Dublin. He fought against Jack Langan, who twice challenged for the championship of England and was also defeated by the renowned Jewish fighter Aby Belasco.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This sports review begins: 'Swifts V. Macalvenny Wallopers / Written by JAMES CURRNS / Copies to be had at 192 Overgate Dundee' (probably the Poets' Box) The verse begins: 'A football match last Saturday I went to see; / To have some fun was exactly what I ment, you see'.
Very little is known about either of these football teams although the Swifts were known to have been a Dundee team who played against Arbroath in 1880. That match was supposed to have decided whether supremacy lay with the city or the country. Dundee is renowned for its devotion to its football teams. Interest in football increased at the same rate as the spread of industrialisation as it was a constructive way to spend precious recreation hours. Dundee's football fascination is hardly surprising given its industrial orientation. The composer James Curran (or Currin) was a well-known Glasgow parodist.
The Dundee Poets? Box was in operation from about 1880 to 1945, though it is possible that some material was printed as early as the 1850s. Most of the time it had premises at various addresses in Overgate. In 1885 the proprietor J.G. Scott (at 182 Overgate) had published a catalogue of 2,000 titles consisting of included humorous recitations, dialogues, temperance songs,  medleys, parodies, love songs, Jacobite songs. Another proprietor in the 1880s was William Shepherd, but little is known about him. Poets? Box was particularly busy on market days and feeing days when country folk were in town in large numbers. Macartney specialised in local songs and bothy ballads. Many Irish songs were published by the Poets? Box ? many Irishmen worked seasonally harvesting potatoes and also in the jute mills. In 1906 John Lowden Macartney took over as proprietor of the Poet?s Box, initially working from 181 Overgate and later from no.203 and 207.
It is not clear what the connection between the different Poet?s Boxes were. They almost certainly sold each other?s sheets. It is known that John Sanderson in Edinburgh often wrote to the Leitches in Glasgow for songs and that later his brother Charles obtained copies of songs from the Dundee Poet?s Box. There was also a Poet?s Box in Belfast from 1846 to 1856 at the address of the printer James Moore, and one at Paisley in the early 1850s, owned by William Anderson. 
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An account of a most dreadful and fatal Pitched Battle which was fought on Monday last, at Childshill, near London, between Davis and Winkworth, when Winkworth was killed, and warrants were issued against a number of pugilists, among whom were Byrne, Reynolds, and Spring.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow and is dated 14th August 1829.
In the early nineteenth century bareknuckle prizefighting was a popular spectator sport, particularly among gamblers. It may be considered the ancestor of the modern sport of boxing, although prizefighting was far less controlled by tactical restrictions or by limits of time. The Queensberry Rules, which constitute the foundation of modern boxing, were introduced in 1857 partly to reduce the often terrible violence of the fights. This violence is evident in this broadside report, where a prizefighter dies from head injuries after a fifty-eight round fight.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This sports round-up begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of the GREAT BATTLE fought by ROBINSON and CROSBIE, in a field near West Craigs, on Saturday last, the 11th day of June 1825, for 200 Sovereigns'. This sheet was published by Alexander Turnbull and would have sold for a penny.
There are many broadsides held in the National Library of Scotland's collection which detail boxing matches held up and down the country. This sheet is a fascinating blow-by-blow account of each round, which would no doubt have made for interesting reading for those who missed the fight. The language used in these reports, euphemistic and slang, seems to have been a feature common to most of them. John Crosbie was a Scottish pugilist about whom little is known. He was probably the Crosbie who fought a Londoner called Birrell in 1814 and almost certainly the one who beat a fellow Glaswegian called Carrick in 1818. Matt Robinson, from Yorkshire, was successful in two fights in Scotland (he also defeated Tom 'Scotch' Robertson). The Crosbie fight was reputedly his prize-ring debut. He died in Manchester in 1861.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The broadside news report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of that most Desperate and well fought BATTLE which took place between SAM BYRNE and DEAF BURKE, on Thursday last, 150 miles on this side of London upon the Great North Road, for L.150 a side,- when Deaf Burke was declared Champion, after a desperate battle of 27 rounds, which lasted one hour and fifteen minutes.' The sheet was published in 1833 by Francis McCartney of Edinburgh.
In its coverage of a heavyweight boxing contest, this broadside reads much like the type of report one would find in the sports pages of today's newspapers. The broadside contains a round by round report on a boxing match that took place in May 1833 between James 'Deaf' Burke (1809-45) and Simon 'Sam' Byrne. Although Byrne was the bigger and heavier man, Burke knocked him out in round 28, after fighting for 75 minutes. Tragically, however, the fight took a terrible toll on Byrne, and he died three days later from his wounds. In an attempt to save his prize-fighting career, Burke emigrated to America. He quickly returned to England, however, where, impoverished, he died of tuberculosis in 1845.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A LIST of the SPORTING LADIES, Who are arrived in EDINBURGH, from all the different Towns in the Three Kingdoms, to take their Pleasure at KELSO RACES.' A note at the bottom of the sheet reads, 'Those who want any of the above Ladies, may call for them at Moffat's Close, High Street, Edinburgh.'
What then follows is a list, in verse form, of the 'sporting ladies' who have arrived in the capital, along with the names of their home towns. Each woman is mentioned fondly and is referred to in the politest of terms. Although at first glance, it appears that these young women have travelled to Edinburgh to enjoy a day at the races, the term 'sporting ladies' at this time actually referred to prostitutes. As advertised by this broadside, the women were working out of a house in Moffat's Close, Edinburgh.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.