This report begins: 'Farther Particulars about William Pollock, who hanged himself in the Jail of Edinburgh, on Monday the 20th March, 1826, with his last Dying Declaration in a Letter to a Gentleman the night before his death.' It was published for William Robertson and priced at one penny.
In 1826, William Pollock was found guilty of murdering his wife and sentenced to be hanged. Throughout the entire ordeal, Pollock vehemently protested his innocence and, finally, seeing no way out of his situation, chose to commit suicide two days before his execution. This case must have sparked a lot of interest, as many broadsides were issued detailing the facts of the case and Pollock's suicide. A large number of these broadsides can now be found in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins, 'SUICIDE AND MURDER! A particular account of the unfortunate Muss Elizabeth Wilson, a female of seduction.' Published by W. Robertson, this report sold for a penny. 
The first report tells of a young farmer's daughter from Fife, who poisoned herself after she fell for the charms of a nobleman 'far above her station in life', who used her and left her penniless. The report is not sympathetic to Miss Wilson, it ends, 'This lamentable occurrence ought to be a warning to young women from the delusion of persons above their rank.'
The second report concerns an execution of Janet Cooper, in Derby, England, for the murder, by starvation, of her 7 year old stepdaughter.This report begins: 'A Full True and Particular Account of the Suicide committed by William Pollock, in the Jail of Edinburgh, yesterday morning, the 20th March 1826, who was condemned to be Executed here tomorrow (Wednesday the 22d current) for the Murder of his own Wife; together with a copy of his LETTER to Mr Young, Governor of the Jail, &c.' The broadside was priced at one penny and was published by J. Cumming of Edinburgh.
Broadside reports of suicides were often used by authors or editors as an opportunity for moralising, and it was not uncommon for the reports to include lengthy 'suicide notes' which were in fact more likely the work of the broadside's author. In this case, however, although Pollock's actions are described in detail, there is a complete absence of sermonising or judging of the victim in the reporting. Moreover, the brief extracts of suicide notes that are included read like they could quite plausibly be the work of Pollock.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried  public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This public notice begins: 'A Full True and Particular Account of the Suicide committed by WILLIAM POLLOCK, in the Jail of Edinburgh, yesterday morning, the 20th March 1826, who was condemned to be Executed here tomorrow'. This sheet was published by J. Cumming of Edinburgh and would have cost a penny to buy.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This murder report begins: 'An acconnt of that barbarous murder on the body of a shearer, in the village of currie near Edinburgh, by some journeymen masons on Monday last.' Also contained on this broadside is another report which begins, 'We copy this murder and suicide from the same paper. - The town and neighbourhood of Barnet was thrown into the utmost consternation, on Tuesday, by the report that two ladies were murdered at Hadley Green.'
This broadside in fact contains two murder reports. This would have offered people value for their penny (the price of a broadside), since most crime sheets merely offered coverage of one incident. The second report details a double murder near Barnet, England. The bodies of an elderly woman (60) and her daughter (39) were found 'completely saturated with blood' by a servant. It was concluded by a jury that the mother died from wounds inflicted by her daughter, who then committed suicide, 'being at the time in a state of mental derangement'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'IT is with regret that we announce to the public, and more so to those who knew the above-described person. He was a young man lately placed as Minister of the parish at Largs, well beloved by all his hearers and all who knew him, promising in appearance, and benevolent in all his ways.' Although no publication date is included, a note at the foot of the sheet states that it was 'Printed for James Thomson'.
This broadside reports on the tragedy of a minister who committed suicide after finding out that his mistress was pregnant. The middle part of the sheet is a transcription of a letter, which the slighted woman apparently sent to the minister. Unfortunately, the lack of a publication date means that it is very difficult to place this broadside in its proper historical context. At the time of publication, however, this event would have been a scandal of seismic proportions - especially in such a staunchly Presbyterian region as Ayrshire. The writer sensitively concludes that, in spite of appearances, 'in this case we see that all mankind is fallible'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Authentic ACCOUNT of a most Melancholy and Extraordinary occurrence of FATAL LOVE, which took place at Kincardine, on Thursday last ; together with a COPY of the very affecting LETTER, which was found in the young Woman's bosom after she was cut down, and which fully explains the cause of her committing this rash and fatal act.'
The story of Miss Amelia McC----n, who hung herself in her bedroom in Kincardine, Fife. The reason for her suicide was her broken heart over a Sea Captain who had betrayed her by sailing for the West Indies after making many promises of love. Her pain is evident in the note found on her, in which she says, 'O inconstant men, How will you promise----how deceive!'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full and particular Account of the Abduction of a Young Lady, and awful Suicide committed by a Captain M. on Saturday last, near Stratford; with an account how the Lady was providentially saved from being murdered by him.' Taken from the newspaper, 'The Edinburgh Courant'. Published in Edinburgh for John Lyons, this broadside sold for a penny.
A sensationalist piece, recounting how a young lady, Miss ---, was taken, under considerable duress, to the country near Stratford, England, by her potential suitor, Captain M. Captain M had intended to stab Miss --- and then kill himself with slow-acting laudanum, a tincture made from opium, which he had taken earlier. Fortunately for Miss ---, the laudanum took effect earlier than anticipated and Captain M was unable to carry out the murder. He later died 'in the greatest agonies'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.