Following on from the title, the report continues: 'Received in Glasgow, a few days ago, from one of the Persons engaged in the unfortunate affair of Bonnymuir, giving a particular account of the situation of the whole of the people who were transported for being concerned on that unhappy occasion; with a description of that colony.' The sheet was published by John Muir of Glasgow.
This fascinating broadside describes life from the former British penal colony of Botany Bay, Australia. Addressed to his wife, the letter was written by Thomas McCulloch, who was one of the 'The Bonnymuir Prisoners'. These men were Radicals who were transported for demanding some political rights, following a controversial trial in Stirling, in 1820. The letter reveals much about the five-month voyage to Australia, plus an explanation of the situation regarding wives and sweethearts being allowed to emigrate and join their menfolk. A whole sequence of sheets telling the story of 'The Bonnymuir Prisoners' is contained in the National Library of Scotland's collection.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An Account of the Trial of James Wilson, which came on before the Lords Commissioners at Glasgow on Thursday and Friday the 20th and 21st of July, 1820. accused of High Treason, and who was found Guilty, but recommended to the mercy of the Crown.' The sheet was published in 1820 by John Muir of Glasgow.
As the decade following the end of the Napoleonic Wars is generally regarded as the era when Britain came closest to undergoing a revolution, the Establishment cracked down hard on sedition by enforcing the treason law with great severity. The trial report contained in this broadside is part of this wider historical context. Indeed, the delicate nature of this state trial certainly presented the authorities with a dilemma, a fact demonstrated by the long list of high-ranking judges named in the opening paragraph. The great sensitivity of this trial is also illustrated by the jury's careful decision to temper its guilty verdict, with a recommendation that James Wilson be shown mercy - a recommendation that fell on deaf ears.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'Copy of Two LETTERS from the late ANDREW HARDIE, the former written to his Uncle, dated Stirling Castle, 5th September, and the latter to his Sweetheart the night preceding his Execution, dated 7th Sept. 1820.' The name of the publisher is not included on this sheet.
Andrew Hardie was executed in 1820, along with John Baird, for the audacious crime of being a 'Radical' and publicly demanding 'Freedom, Truth and Justice'. As the decade following Waterloo is regarded as the closest Britain ever came to undergoing a political revolution, the establishment enforced its sedition and treason laws with great severity - hence these executions. Hardie's letter to his uncle reads much like a political leaflet. The letter to his sweetheart, however, is far gentler in tone. A public memorial to Hardie and Baird can be found in Sighthill Cemetery, Glasgow.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This court report begins: 'This morning, at nine o'clock, the Court (consisting of the Lord President, the Lord Justice Clerk, Lords Hermand and Gillies, Mr Searjeant Hullock, the Lord Chief Commissioner, the Lord Advocate, and a great number of other Advocates) met, and proceeded to the trial of the following persons, accused of High Treason . . . ' Dated July 13th, 1820, the sheet was published by W. Carse, Printer.
The formidable assembly of top legal minds listed in the introduction to this sheet illustrates what a sensitive and important case it was. 'The Bonnymuir Prisoners' were in fact political prisoners, as they were Radicals who had started demanding some political rights. However, since the decade following the Battle of Waterloo is generally regarded as the era when Britain came closest to undergoing a political revolution, the Establishment had to be very careful as to how this state trial in Stirling was conducted. The ringleaders, Andrew Hardie and John Baird, plus four others, were found guilty of treason, and were executed at Stirling in September, 1820.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of Thomas M'Kay, who stood his Trial before the Special Commission, at Ayr, on Wednesday, the 9th of August, 1820; and who is to be Hanged, Beheaded and Quartered, on the 15th September, 1820.' The sheet was published in 1820 by John Muir of Glasgow.
As can be seen from the opening paragraphs to this broadside, a Special Commission comprised a large group of high-ranking judges who presided over cases that were especially sensitive. Although the four accused men are charged with high treason, frustratingly, the details of their alleged crimes are not mentioned. However, it seems likely that their alleged crimes were linked to widespread political unrest in Scotland, which in turn fits into the broader picture of political agitation unrest that existed throughout Britain at this time. Although Thomas McKay was sentenced to death, it is not clear if the sentence was in fact carried out - suggesting that the sentence may have been later commuted.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.The sheet begins: 'Copy of a very interesting Letter which was received in Glasgow on Wednesday last from Andrew White, at Botany Bay, who was engaged in the Battle of Bonnymuir, giving a particular account of the situation of himself and his companions; and many other particulars respecting that now respectable Colony.' The sheet was published in May 1822  by John Muir of Glasgow.
Andrew White was implicated for his part in the Battle of Bonnymuir in April 1820. He was found guilty of High Treason and transported to Australia. Two of his fellow Radicals, John Baird and Andrew Hardie were hung, then beheaded, but White eventually returned to Scotland after the Radicals were pardoned in 1835.
In this letter home he describes life in the 'now respectable Colony' of Botany Bay. This sheet would have appealed to those interested in the Rising and those with friends or relatives in the colonies, and it probably sold very well.This report begins: 'A Full, True, and Particular Account of the Execution of ANDREW HARDIE and JOHN BAIRD, who were Hanged and Beheaded at Stirling, on Friday 8th September 1820, for High Treason, together with their Behaviour at the Place of Execution.' This sheet was published by William Cameron of Edinburgh, and cost one penny.
Six thousand people turned up in Stirling in 1820 to witness the execution of the Radicals, Andrew Hardie and John Baird. These men were sentenced to death for publicly demanding their political rights, as part of the agenda for the Radical Movement. The broadside describes the execution in great detail, and reports that the two condemned men conducted themselves on the scaffold with great fortitude. The large number of soldiers present at the execution suggests that the authorities were fearful that the crowd might turn into a mob. Indeed, the crowd shouted 'Murderer!' at the headsman.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.