This crime report continues: 'Before the High Court of Justiciary - July 12 and 14. / A true and particular account of the Trial of, and Sentence upon, the great Gilmerton Criminals, David Dobie and John Thompson.' It was printed by Forbes and Owen and sold for a penny a copy.
David Dobie and John Thomson were sentenced to execution and dissection  for the robbery, rape and murder of Margaret Paterson of Gilmerton. David Bertie was returned the verdict of 'not proven' against the accusation of raping his landlady's servant Margaret Grey, of Joppa. Mary Taylor and George Leslie were convicted of theft. This sort of 'sensationalist' news sold well, especially amongst the new city populations. There are other reports of these cases held at the National Library of Scotland.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This summary of court proceedings begins: 'Glasgow, April 12th, 1824. - This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the Right Hon. the Lords Gillies and Meadowbank, when, after an appropriate prayer by the Rev. Mr. Muir, St James's, the court proceeded to examine the following cases?' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow.
The most common punishment meted on these two days of cases was transportation, but some convicts were instead sentenced to imprisonment in Glasgow Bridewell. Bridewells were prisons modelled on the 'house of correction', originally founded to house the homeless, at Bridewell Palace in London in 1550. Prisoners were put to hard labour, and were also whipped frequently, often in front of a public gallery.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court report begins: 'GLASGOW SPRING CIRCUIT. / This day (April 26th) the Glasgow Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened by Lords M'Kenzie and Medwyn, when after the usual preliminaries were gone through, the court commenced with the trial of . . .'
What follows is a list of individuals, along with the crimes they have committed and the sentences that were passed. This is one of many such circulars contained in the National Library of Scotland's broadside collection, all of which offer an interesting insight into 'everyday' crime and punishment in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland. The punishment for crimes, which by today's standards would be considered petty offences, were often severe. On Wednesday the 27th April, for example, John McKinlay was sentenced to be transported for seven years for stealing woollen yarn.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account of court proceedings begins: 'Glasgow, April 23d, 1823. - This afternoon, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the Right Hon, the Lords Gillies and Succoth. After an impressive prayer from the Rev. Dr. Gibb, the court adjourned till next morning.' It was published by William Carse of Glasgow.
Broadsides summarising court proceedings were fairly common, just as sheriff court cases for minor crimes might be summarised in local newspapers today. The obvious difference between then and now is the severity of the sentences that were handed down in 1823. Most cases here carry sentences of lengthy periods of transportation for theft or forgery and two unfortunate individuals are sentenced to death for breaking into shops. From the late seventeenth century crimes against property became subject to particularly heavy penalties under the penal reforms known as the 'Bloody Code'.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This summary of court proceedings begins: 'Yesterday, the Justiciary Court was opened here by Lords Meadowbank and Mackenzie, when it proceeded with the trial of Duncan M'Arthur, Margaret Love, and Catherine Fitzgerald, charged with stealing a trunk, containing a great many articles of wearing apparel, belonging to Lord Strathallan.' The publisher was William Carse of Glasgow.
The majority of hearings at this circuit court were cases of theft, which resulted in sentences of transportation or imprisonment. One of the shortest but most interesting entries is that of George Campbell, who was proved to be insane and confined for life. Campbell was originally accused of the sectarian-motivated murder of Peter O'Niel in Bridgeton. The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside giving details of the crime just after it had been committed.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Account of the interesting Trial of John Stewart and Catherine Wright for the Murder and Robbery of Robert Lamont, on board the Toward Castle Steam Boat . . . They are to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 19th August next.' The report was published in Glasgow in July 1829 by William Carse. The trial was held at Edinburgh.
Stewart and Wright had poisoned Lamont, with intent to rob him, by putting laudanum, a tincture made from opium, into his drink. Compared with other crimes, it seemed a more profitable and less dangerous way of procuring money. Lamont was the first fatality for Stewart and Wright. The report ends by comparing the two to Burke and Hare, who also attacked people after making a pretence of friendship.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court report begins: 'An account of the Trial of JOHN ARMSTRONG, in the High Court of Justiciary, for Shopbreaking and Theft, who is to be executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 17th day of January, 1810.' This sheet was published by Thomas Duncan.
This case was heard in the High Court in Edinburgh, suggesting that it was published in Edinburgh also. However, both Thomas Duncans working in the booktrade at this time were based in Glasgow. They were closely associated with the production of court reports and information, especially on big or interesting cases which would have been of interest across the country.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full, True, and particular ACCOUNT of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT JOHNSTON, GEORGE GALLOWAY, and JAMES LEES, for Assault and Robbery, on the 25th of October last, on the High Road, south of St Patrick?s Square, Edinburgh; one of whom, (Robert Johnston), is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday 30th of December next. George Galloway to be banished for Fourteen, and James Lees for Seven years, beyond seas.' The publisher is not identified.
Through reporting a trial that took place at the High Court in 1818, this broadside offers its readers a vivid description of a violent robbery that took place at Sciennes, in Edinburgh. It appears that after carrying out the robbery, the villains went out to celebrate and, rather bizarrely, the leader of the gang, Robert Johnston, entrusted an acquaintance to look after the stolen money. It was this rash act that ultimately led to their undoing. Johnston was sentenced to death, and his two accomplices were banished.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'How now! Ye secret black and midnight fiends! / What's this ye do? A deed without a name! -- Shakespeare. Wi?mair o? horrible an? awfu? / That even to name would be unlawfu?! -- Burns. High Court of Justiciary. -- July 12, 1830.' Printed by Forbes and Owen. The opening quotations to this broadside by Shakespeare and Burns are from 'Macbeth' and 'Tam O?Shanter'.
Part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to a murder that took place in Gilmerton, this second edition broadside informs readers about the court proceedings and subsequent sentence, with a detailed mention of the evidence. Found guilty of the murder, the magistrate sentences John Thomson and David Dobie to death, with their bodies being spirited away immediately after execution for dissection in an anatomy class. The broadside concludes with the observation that although Thomson trembled at the sentence, Dobie impudently - and rather imaginatively - informed the sentencing judge that 'They cannot dissect the soul'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT TENNANT, who is to be Executed at Stirling, on Wednesday morning, the 2d of October and his body buried within the prcincts of the Jail there, for the Horrid murder of William Peddie, labourer, by felling him on the head with a Hammer, on the evening of 3d of August, 1833, while breaking stones on the road, in the parish of Falkirk.' This broadside was published in Edinburgh, by Menzies.
Robert Tennant had a drinking problem and had flown into a rage and killed his 70-year-old foreman when asked to leave his job because of it. This broadside is one of several which the National Library of Scotland holds relating to this case, and is interesting especially for its style; the majority of the text is in note form, as though it has been taken directly from a reporter's notepad.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full, True and Particular Account of the Trial and Conviction this day, before the High Court of Justiciary, of the Great and most Notorious Thief John Wilson, and of his Companions Duncan Robertson and Thomas Hamilton, for Three different Robberies and Housebreakings, committed in Edinburgh, - together with the full Evidence given by the Accomplice John Gibson, formerly a respectable Merchant on the South Bridge. / HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.?July, 3, 1831.' This sheet was published by Forbes and Owen of Edinburgh.
The business 'Forbes and Owen' went through many variations during its working career. It was initially known as Forbes and Owen for just over a year before changing to 'Forbes and Kay'. It was known as this for, again, just over a year. For the next two years the title 'Forbes and Co.' was used, before eventually being known as just 'J. Forbes'. The business disappears from the records altogether in November 1834. During this entire period mainly chapbooks and broadsides were produced. The broadsides covered most of the topical events of their time and in some of the most sensationalist styles. The end of this broadside is revealing, both about the mechanisms of production and the sales pitch. The audience is told that more facts will be reported in the next edition along with another mysterious story of avid interest!
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins, 'Just Published, an Account of the Trial of the Rev. MR TAIT, Minister of the College Church, before the Presbytery of Edinburgh, which met this day in the Trustee's Hall, head of Scott's Close.' Published in Edinburgh by A. McMillan. The broadside is not dated.
The subject here is not a criminal trial, but the trial of a minister accused of arousing 'fanatical excitement' in his congregation. Reverend Tait, of College Church (possibly Trinity College Church) was called in front of the Presbytery of Edinburgh to answer charges of committing 'extravagances in a place of worship . . . by which all sobre persons were deeply scandalised'. The Reverend was served with libel and suspended.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This report begins: 'An account of the trial and sentence of Robert Emond, who was tried at Edinburgh on Monday last, for the horrid murder and robbery of his sister-in-law and his niece, in the village of Abbey, near Haddington, by cutting their throats, and nearly severing their heads from their body; he was found guilty and sentenced to be executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday 17th day of March next.--Glasgow 9th February, 1830.' Printed in Glasgow for John Muir.
This trial report goes into great detail about the heinous crime committed by Robert Emond. He had killed his wife's sister, Mrs Franks, and her 14-year-old daughter in October 1829. Emond was composed at his trial, until the jury heard what he had said to his cellmates. When they asked him whether he had committed the crime, he apparently replied 'Oh, yes, but don't speak of it to me; for it goes like a knife into my heart whenever I think of it'. At this, there was a 'sensation in court' and Emond began to wail, or 'quail', dreadfully.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside, entitled 'Circuit', begins: 'A List of the TRIALS and SENTENCES of the various Prisoners who have appeared before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which opened at Glasgow. On Monday the 21st Sep. 1829.' The sheet was published by Carmichael & Graham, Printers.
This report lists those who were tried at the Glasgow Circuit Court on Monday 21st and Tuesday 22nd September, 1829, along with the crimes they are accused of, the court's verdict, and the punishment given. All those listed were found guilty, although it is possible that those found not guilty, or not proven, are not on the list. The majority have been sentenced to 7 or 14 years transportation, whilst others have been given prison sentences or sentenced to hard labour at the city Bridewell (house of correction).
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins 'Glasgow Trials / Account, of the Trials and Sentences of the various Prisoners who have stood before the Circuit Court of Justiciary since its opening on Monday last.' It was published in Glasgow, on 15th September 1828, by William Carse.
This document reports over 20 cases which were heard at the court. Only two people, Thomas Connar and Isobella or Bell McMenemy were sentenced to death, and the National Library of Scotland holds broadsides giving accounts of their executions. The remainder were, in the main, sentenced to transportation or hard labour. One girl, Janet Black, was banished for 7 years for stealing clothes, and for 'habit and repute' . She was only 10 years old!
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'Trials & Sentences Of all the different Prisoners who have stood their Trials at the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which opened at Glasgow on Monday the 16th September, 1822, when one young man was sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 23d of October next, for Housebreaking and Theft.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow, and probably sold for one penny.
John Muir was one of three Glasgow printers, the others being Thomas Duncan and William Carse, who specialised in publishing trial accounts, last speeches or lamentations, and the trial lists of the Circuit Court. Between 1821 and 1824 he had premises at 53 Princes Street, before moving to number 30 in 1825 - where he remained until 1839. Following his death, Mrs Muir ran the family business from 49 Trongate Street until 1844.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This account begins: 'An account of the Trials and Sentences of all the different Prisoners who have been tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which met at Glasgow on Monday, September 15, 1828.' The sheet was printed in Glasgow by John Muir.
The National Library of Scotland holds another broadside by a different printer covering this particular session of the Circuit Court. It is interesting to note that this account includes more factual information, such as an explanation of the new, shorter 'mode of procedure', which apparently cuts out the Jury when a plea of not guilty is raised, thereby giving a different angle on the proceedings.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'This day, the two Judges proceeded to try the following cases:- Alexr. Latham. John Nish and Alexr. Latham, assault. Outlawed. ROBERT ANDERSON, for breaking into the Currying Shop of David Mickle, Spoutmouth, on the 38th June last, and stealing guinea note, pled Guilty.' The broadside was published by William Carse of Glasgow.
Although a single capital crime was often the subject of a whole series of broadsides, lesser crimes were commonly summarised along with several others in round-ups of court proceedings, such as the one shown here. One of the notable aspects of this broadside is the severity of sentences that were passed even for minor misdeeds. One example is Janet Black, who was sentenced to seven years' transportation for stealing from a bleaching green. Underneath the report of her sentence it is noted: 'This girl is only ten years of age'.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court report begins: 'A particular account of the procedure of the Circuit Court of Justiciary held at Glasgow on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday the 19, 20, 21st of September 1786, giving a particular account of the trial and sentence of the different criminals.'
Three separate cases are reported on this sheet, the main being that of John Cox, and then a further two relating to Elizabeth Paul Wilson and Daniel MacKay. This sheet is revealing not only of the types of crimes being committed in its contemporary society, and their details, but also of the court proceedings themselves. The official opening and the prayer are detailed as are the specifics of each witness' appearance.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court round-up begins: 'This day the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the Right Hon. the Lord Justice Clerk and Lord Alloway, and after the usual solemnities had been gone through, the Court proceeded to business.' Interestingly, this broadside contains text on both sides of the sheet, which was highly unusual. It is possible to read some of the text that is printed on the other side of this sheet.
Although this broadside is a straightforward list of the people who were facing court charges and the various verdicts that were returned, it still reveals much about the era it was printed in. There is certainly a wide variety of different crimes and sentences listed on this sheet, though, revealingly, the majority of the charges are for robbery, theft and housebreaking. The most common sentence is one of transportation, with Botany Bay in Australia being the most likely destination for these prisoners. The National Library of Scotland's collection contains a number of broadsides that detail the mixed agenda of Glasgow's Circuit Courts during this period.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'A particular account of the procedure of the Circuit Court of Justiciary held at Glasgow on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday the 19, 20, 21st of September 1786, giving a particular account of the trial and sentence of the different criminals.' No publication dates have been included on this sheet.
This account offers a fascinating insight into crime and punishment in eighteenth-century Scotland. The penalties for offences that by today's standards would seem fairly minor were extremely severe and unforgiving. Throughout the eighteenth century, and much of the nineteenth century, the common punishment for theft and housebreaking was execution. During this particular round of the Circuit Court, Elizabeth Paul, alias Wilson, was sentenced to be hanged for stealing cloth from a Paisley bleachfield.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'An account of the names and crimes of the different prisoners who have been tried at the Spring Circuit, Glasgow, where the Honourable the Lord Justice Clerk and Lord Moncrieff presided. John Thomas Gordon, Esq, Advocate-Depute.' It was printed by Muir of Glasgow.
This broadside provides a list of all prisoners who were tried at the Spring Circuit Court in Glasgow, between the 21st and 23rd April 1841, along with their crimes and sentencing. Whilst many of the crime broadsides published at this time carried sensationalist accounts of gruesome and shocking murders, this court circular offers an interesting and typical cross section of nineteenth-century criminal activity.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This court report begins: 'An account of the Trials of the different Criminals, in the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Glasgow, which was opened on Tuesday the 2d of May, 1809'.  The sheet was published by Thomas Duncan of 159 Saltmarket, Glasgow.
There is actually a variety of reports included on this sheet, which covers three days of proceedings in Glasgow, as well as the previous diets at Ayr (Air) and Dumfries. It was quite usual for many of these court sheets to contain the range of cases tried and to report other big or interesting cases from the surrounding area. This would have added to the perceived value of the sheet as the purchaser would have received more information for his or her money.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This court circular begins: 'WEDNESDAY, April 26, 1843. / The Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here today. Wednesday- Lords Meadowbank and Cockburn. Judges ; David Milne, Esq. Advocate Depute.' Printed by Muir of Glasgow, this broadside probably cost the purchaser one penny.
Printed on this broadside are the names of all prisoners who passed through the Circuit Court of the Justiciary, Glasgow, between the 26th and 28th April, 1843. Each individual is listed along with the nature of their crime and the subsequent sentencing. It offers an interesting insight into nineteenth-century crime and punishment: for the relatively petty crime of theft, one John McGranachan of Greenock was sentenced to seven years' transportation.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside begins: 'A list of those who are indicted, and to be tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, to be opened at Glasgow on Tuesday the 20th day of September 1791.'
In the first case, the accused, James Plunkett, attacked and robbed silversmith Robert Wilson. James Plunkett was sentenced to be executed on 26th October, but escaped from the Tollbooth on 11th October. A reward was offered for him, and he was apprehended at Aberbrothie (probably Arbroath) in Angus, but he was sent to the High Court in Edinburgh, where he eventually admitted his identity and was executed in Glasgow on January 11th 1792.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Glasgow, 22d December, 1828. This day the EXTRA Assize was opened here by the Hon. Lords Gillies and Alloway, and after the usual solemnities had been gone through, the Court proceeded to business.' The sheet was published in Glasgow, probably by William Carse, although it is difficult to be certain since the name has been torn off.
This is a list of all the cases which were heard that day, the charges and the outcomes. Most of the sentences seem harsh by modern standards. It is interesting to note that whilst James 'Keeky'  Watt was sentenced to 7 years transportation for stealing a watch, Robert Hay, found guilty of assault, received only three months in prison.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of HUGH M'MILLAN, and EUPHEMIA M'MILLAN, this last of whom is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 23d January, 1828, for the Murder of Archibald Campbell, Teacher of Dancing in Edinburgh, by throwing Vitriol in his face, in consequence of which he died in great agony.' Vitriol is another name for sulphuric acid.
An argument broke out between Euphemia McMillan and Archibald Campbell, over a chair which had been laid across a doorway to prevent 'the child' from falling down the stairs. We are never told whose 'the child' was, or how it came to be in Campbell's house, perhaps having dancing lessons. Mrs McMillan caused a scene and was taken away by the police, but later returned to throw acid over Campbell's face. Mr McMillan appears to have had nothing to do with the incident.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This broadside begins: 'An Account of the Proceedings of the Special Commission at Cork for the Trials of the Whiteboys, when nearly FORTY unfortunate Human Beings received the awful sentence of Death; several of whom, were ordered for Execution on Monday last 25th day of Feb., 1822, and their bodies to be given for Dissection.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow, and probably cost one penny.
This broadside recounts the trial of forty 'Whiteboys' who stood trial in Cork.  Formed in Tipperary in 1761, 'Whiteboys' - who acquired their name from the white linen shirts they wore - were strongly opposed to changes that were occurring in Irish agriculture at this time. Believing in direct action, they took extreme measures often sabotaging farmland and targeting those in authority. The movement became so widespread that the Whiteboy Act was passed in 1765 in an attempt to curb their activities.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This broadside crime report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of James Anderson and David Glenn, who are to be Executed at the spot where the crime was committed, on Friday, the 12th December 1823, for the Murder of John M'Clure, and their bodies to be given for Disaection.' Printed in 1823.
Crime was one of the most popular subjects for broadsides, and in particularly infamous cases several separate broadsides might be produced, giving different accounts of the trial, sentencing and, where one followed, execution. In this case, the trial and sentencing are dealt with in the same broadside. The details of the murder are given plainly, as they were heard at the trial, and the judge's summing up after sentencing is reported in great detail. Broadsides catered to an audience with very definite tastes and expectations, and the amount of emphasis given to the judge's remarks on repentence and the afterlife reflects the devout presbyterianism practised by most Scots in 1823.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An Account of the Trial and Sentence of John Campbell, and William Helm, accused of culpable Homicide, whereby Alexr. Lawson a shearer met his death at Currie.'
This account of an apparently unprovoked assault reflects some of the prejudices and concerns that were common in nineteenth century Scotland. Vagrancy would have met with strong suspicion and resistance in some quarters, particularly in smaller communities, and here the victim is attacked after his family have sought lodgings in a Scottish village. Moreover, there is an implication of racial and religious prejudice. At the start of the report, the victim's widow confirms her Protestantism 'with peculiar emphasis', and it is revealed that the victim is native to Ireland. The perceived 'danger' of Catholicism was a sensitive issue during this period of significant Irish migration to Scotland.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of JAMES NEWLANDS, who is to be executed at Inverness, on Saturday 25th May, 1833, for the Horrible crime of Rape on a young girl, only 17 years of age.'
On the way home from Elgin Feeing Market, James Newlands, 39, and some others, stopped at a pub for a drink. After leaving the pub Newlands persuaded Jane Ross to walk on ahead with him, saying they would take a different road and meet the others shortly. Once they were alone, Newlands sexually assaulted the girl three times. Interestingly, this account goes into detail about Lord Moncrieff, the judge's, views on rape and his opinion regarding women's place in society.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARGARET BOAG, at Edinburgh, on Monday 19th January 1824, charged with murdering Elizabeth Low, an Old Woman of 75 years of age, at Dunning in Perthshire, on the 18th February 1818; or with Theft and Reset of Theft, in stealing from her House a Quantity of Webs of Linen and Sheeting, and various other Articles, who was found Guilty of Theft, and Sentenced to be Transported beyond Seas for Life.' It was published by James Dougherty of Edinburgh in 1824, priced at one penny.
Margaret Boag escaped with her life, instead being sentenced to transportation, because the murder charge against her was found not proven. This is a verdict unique to Scottish criminal law that tends to be used in cases where the jury or sheriff feels the defendant may be guilty but does not have substantial enough evidence to convict beyond reasonable doubt. Although heavily criticised in some legal quarters, the not proven verdict continues to be used today.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of ROBERT SCOTT, who is to be Executed at the spot where he committed the horrid deed, on Wednesday 29th October, for the barbarous Murder of James Aitcheson, Cooper, and Robert Sim, Horse-dealer, Greenlaw, on the road near Earlston, on the 30th of June last, and his Body to be sent to Dr MUNRO, Edinburgh, for Dissection. This sheet was published by Allan Grant, in Edinburgh, and sold for a penny a copy.
There are other broadside reports of Robert Scott's case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection. This report mentions that Scott's body was be transported to the University of Edinburgh where it was to be used for dissection lectures by Dr Munro. This was a further punishment as the dissection of ones body was viewed with disgust and revulsion by society at the time. Dr Munro and his colleague Dr Knox were well known surgeons in Edinburgh who became notorious after their involvement with Burke and Hare.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A true account of the interesting trial of Robert Makintosh, who was tried at the Circuit Court of Justiciary at Aberdeen for the cruel Murder of Elizabeth Anderson, his own Sweetheart, Also an account of the trial of William Gordon for the murder of his wife, who were both sentenced to be Executed on the 31st of May next.' The report is dated 16th April, but the year is not given, and the broadside carries no further publication details.
Some broadside crime reports were written in a highly melodramatic and emotive style which attempted to impress upon readers a sense of the horror of the crime and the wickedness of its perpetrators. The report on this sheet, however, appears to be almost a transcription of the court proceedings. The language is concerned only with the basic facts and the evidence presented by witnesses in the two cases described. In some places the author does not even try to construct proper sentences, instead writing paragraphs that are lists of statements or observations separated by semi-colons. This suggests that the report was written quickly, in an attempt to make it the first published account of the cases. Both Mackintosh and Gordon were hanged in Aberdeen in May 1822.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full, correct, and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of MARY ELDER or SMITH, wife of David Smith, Farmer at Denside, Parish, of Monikie, and county of Forfar, who was tried at Edinburgh, on Monday the 19th February 1827, for the wilful Murder of Margaret Warden, a young woman, her own Servant maid, by Administering Poison to her, on the 5th September last, in consequence of which she Died the third day after ; but the libel was found Not Proven.' Published for James McLean.
It seems that a detailed post-mortem was not carried out on the victim, as the exact cause of death seems unclear. Mary Elder is accused of poisoning her pregnant 25 year-old servant by mixing 'arsenic, or other poisonous substance' with 'water, or other liquid'. The lack of concrete evidence is probably why the jury returned a not proven verdict.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of Margaret Boag, yesterday before the High Court of Justiciary, charged with the atrocious murder of an old woman, 75 years of age, at Dunning in Perthshire, with the account how the murder &c. was discovered, which was committed six years ago.'
Margaret Boag was convicted of theft, having been caught with clothing belonging to her neighbour Elizabeth Low. Low was found dead, wrapped in a carpet with an axe sitting beside her. Boag received a not proven verdict for murder and was sentenced to life transportation for theft. At this time prisoners were sent to Australia, after first lodging in disused war ships.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime account continues: 'Of JAMES BRYCE, labourer, Airdrie, for the Horrid Murder of JOHN GEDDES. / HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY. / Edinburgh, Tuesday, March 12th, 1844.' This sheet was published by Sanderson of Edinburgh.
There are other sheets covering this case held in the National Library of Scotland's collection - the story seems to have been quite sensational. Bryce appears to have killed his wife's brother with fire tongs in order to steal money from him as he was often quite poor. This report reveals the extent of the injuries which killed Geddes and the evidence which convicted him. Some of the other accounts are more personal than this.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'Trial and Sentence Of JAMES GORDON, who is to be Executed at Dumfries, on the 6th June, 1821, for the Barbarous Murder of James Elliot, a Poor Pedlar Boy, by Knocking him on the Head with a Wooden Clog, in a Lonely Muir, in November last.' It was published by John Muir of Glasgow and is dated 30th April 1821.
The motivation for this bizarre-sounding murder appears to have been robbery. Pedlars were particularly vulnerable to assault, because their work took them far from their homes to areas where they were unknown, and because they carried their wares and takings with them. It is easy to see how a murderer might have escaped in 1821, before photography, mass media or efficient communications. Gordon had apparently been on the run for two months, and had travelled the length of the country, before he was finally captured at Nairn.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of Robert Emond, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 17th of March, 1830, for the Barbarous Murder of Mrs Franks and her Daughter, near Haddington, and whose body is to be delivered to the Professor of Anatomy for Dissection.'
According to this report, the level of interest in Emond's case was tremendous. This is confirmed by the number of broadsides that were issued on the Emond murders, more familiarly known as the 'Haddington Murders'. In the National Library of Scotland's collection alone there at least five further broadsides,  including another detailing the trial and sentence, a letter Emond wrote to his wife, a summary of his life, history and transactions, a confession, and, finally, a report regarding his execution.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This crime report begins: 'An account of the Trial and Sentence of JOHN STEWART and CATHERINE WRIGHT, who were found guilty at Edinburgh on Tuesday last of the horrid Murder and Robbery of Robert Lamont on board the Toward Castle Steam Boat, and Sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 19th August next.' The sheet was published on July 15th, 1829, by John Muir of Glasgow.
The murder of Robert Lamont was the deed that brought Stewart and Wright to justice, but after their condemnation, Stewart laid claim to several more murders carried out in the same way. An interesting footnote to the case is that the boat where the murder occurred was named after Toward Castle, overlooking the Firth of Clyde, which is the ancient family seat of the Lamont clan. The victim having this name is more than coincidence - it suggests how in the nineteenth century, far more than today, Scotland's landscape was still discernibly divided into family areas.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information  such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of DONALD ELPHINSTONE, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday morning, the 28th of July, 1824, for the Murder of Mary Stark, or Croket, his mother-in-law, on the 20th of Februrry last, in Libberton's Wynd, and whose body is to be given to Dr. A. Munro for Dissection.' This broadside was sold for one penny and printed on the day of the execution.
Elphinstone met his estranged wife, who had been living with another man, in Libberton's Wynd near the Royal Mile in Edinburgh, and had an altercation with her. Her mother intervened and threw a pail of water at Elphinstone, who then stabbed her. She died 17 days later. It appears as though Elphinstone was a well-liked man and the outburst was very out of character. The judge seems to have felt pity for him but was unable to pass any other sentence for the crime of murder. It is ironic that he would probably have been publicly executed at the head of Libberton's Wynd in the Lawnmarket.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of CHARLES McEWEN, who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 7th April, 1824, for the Barbarous Murder of Margaret Money (Mooney), and his body to be given for dissection.' This broadside sold for a penny and was published in Edinburgh by James Dogherty.
Charles McEwen, who was also known by five other names, killed Margaret Money, whom he had lived with 'as man and wife', by striking her on the head with an anvil. It is interesting that the man pled Not Guilty, considering there were 42 witnesses at his trial. This broadside also boasts a woodcut, foretelling McEwen's fate. It is interesting to note the same image also appears on the broadsides of other Edinburgh printers.
Broadsides are often crudely illustrated with woodcuts - the earliest form of printed illustration, first used in the mid-fifteenth century. Inclusion of an illustration on a broadside increased its perceived value, especially among the illiterate. To keep costs down, publishers would normally reuse their limited stock of generic woodcuts.This report begins: 'Trial and Sentence of David Haggart, for the Murder of the Dumfries jailor who is to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the 18th day of July next.' The name of the publisher is not included.
During an escape from Dumfries Jail, David Haggart killed the turnkey, Thomas Morrin, by striking him on the head with a large stone. It appears that Haggart had a history of escaping from jail, as he previously broke out of Leith Jail. From the lengthy list of crimes read out in court, it appears that Haggart was a habitual criminal, and had also escaped from two jails in Ireland where he was already under sentence of transportation. Aged only 21, Haggart was sentenced to death.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'A full and particular account of the Trial and Sentence of John Thomson and David Dobie, carters, Gilmerton, who are to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday 18th August, for the Assault, Rape, Murder and Robbery of Margaret Paterson, and their bodies to be given for Dissection.' Printed for Wm. Robertson.
Part of a sequence of broadsides dedicated to this particular rape and murder, this news-sheet updates the horrific story by informing readers about the trial and subsequent sentence of the two murderers. The tone of the broadside is rather verbose and text-heavy, and this perhaps indicates that the anonymous writer was closely following a transcript of what the lawyers said in court, since proceedings were held behind closed doors. The closing paragraph describes how the prisoners were both found guilty and sentenced to death, with their bodies being sent to a medical school immediately after execution for dissection. It would appear that sending corpses straight from the scaffold to an anatomy class was an old tradition.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This report begins: 'Trial & Sentence of JAMES BELL, Private in the Fifth Dragoon Guards, for the Murder of Serjeant-major Moorhead, by shooting him with a pistol at Piershill Barrachs, on Sunday the 17th May last.' Published by Sanderson of the High Street, Edinburgh, on the 22nd June 1835.
This broadside tells the tragic story of a Private James Bell who, when refused leave by Sergeant-Major Moorhead, shot the officer dead with a pistol. After outlining the basic details of the incident, the sheet goes on to give an account of the trial and the case for the defence. Although the defence attempts to offer a plea of 'insanity', this is rejected and the mutinous soldier is found guilty and sentenced to death. It is interesting to note that this case was tried in a civil court rather than a military court, which is quite unusual.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This crime report begins: 'A Full, True and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of Thomas Beveridge, who is to be executed on the 2d of December next, for the Murder of his Wife, on the 2d of October, 1831, and his body given for dissection'. This sheet was printed for George Craig and sold for a penny a sheet.
Beveridge was condemned for battering his wife, Janet Greig, to death with a heavy household implement and then trying to conceal his crime. This crime and the subsequent events were perpetrated in Little Jack's Close in the Cannongate, Edinburgh. There are many different people mentioned in the report, as the sensational details of the courtroom drama are relayed to the public.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.This trial report begins: 'A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of HUGH M'MILLAN, and EUPHEMIA M'MILLAN, this last of whom is to be Executed at Edinburgh on Wednesday the 23d January, 1828, for the Murder of Archibald Campbell, Teacher of Dancing in Edinburgh, by throwing Vitriol in his face, in consequence of which he died in great agony.' Vitriol is another name for sulphuric acid.
An argument broke out between Euphemia McMillan and Archibald Campbell, over a chair which had been laid across a doorway to prevent 'the child' from falling down the stairs. We are never told whose 'the child' was, or how it came to be in Campbell's house, perhaps having dancing lessons. Mrs McMillan caused a scene and was taken away by the police, but later returned to throw acid over Campbell's face. Mr McMillan appears to have had nothing to do with the incident.
Reports recounting dark and salacious deeds were popular with the public, and, like today's sensationalist tabloids, sold in large numbers. Crimes could generate sequences of sheets covering descriptive accounts, court proceedings, last words, lamentations and executions as they occurred. As competition was fierce, immediacy was paramount, and these occasions provided an opportunity for printers and patterers to maximise sales.