This poem begins: 'Success to Colonel Baden-Powell and his praises loudly sing, / For being so brave in relieving Mafeking'. The piece was composed in June 1900, after the success of Colonel Baden-Powell's (1857-1941) operation against the Boers in South Africa.
The taking of Mafeking was not particularly important strategically, although it played a huge part in boosting morale and was remembered fondly for the courage and determination of Baden-Powell and his troops. They were outnumbered four to one and were besieged for 216 days. This was also where Baden-Powell's Scout Movement began: he recruited a garrison of boys to act as messengers and orderlies, thereby releasing men to fight. He also devised other clever strategies to call the enemy's bluff. These included making imitation forts to draw enemy fire, and loudly shouting orders to non-existent attack troops!
McGonagall (c. 1830-1902) has gone down in history as one of the worst poets in the English language. Born in Dundee in 1830, he began his working life as a handloom weaver and it was not until 1877, when he was in his late forties, that he 'found his muse'. Throughout his 25-year career, he always remained convinced of his own genius. This is especially evident in the messages included at the top of the page, from the Queen and Prince of Wales.This account begins: 'A Description of the Turks Prayers and Fasts, before they go to war with the / CHRISTIANS'. The last sentence stops in the middle, suggesting that, unusually for a broadside, this sheet either has a second page or that the printing continues onto the back.
The Ottoman Empire, founded by the Mameluke Turks, dominated the politics and culture of the Near East for roughly four hundred years, between 1517 and 1917. Over this time the Ottoman territorial boundaries fluctuated, but there was a noticeable and sustained Ottoman presence in the Balkan area for this entire period. As a result, the Ottomans were in a constant, though not always widely-publicised, struggle with the Hapsburg Empire for control of this buffer-zone area. This makes it rather difficult to give this particular account a date or specific context.
Broadsides are single sheets of paper, printed on one side, to be read unfolded. They carried public information such as proclamations as well as ballads and news of the day. Cheaply available, they were sold on the streets by pedlars and chapmen. Broadsides offer a valuable insight into many aspects of the society they were published in, and the National Library of Scotland holds over 250,000 of them.This ballad begins: 'LET Suff'ring Europe lift her head, / Proud Bonaparte is humbled now, / His routed legions fleeing are, / Before brave Gen'ral Kutusow.' A note below the title states that the ballad should be sung to the tune of 'Green grow the Rashes O', which was written by Robert Burns in 1783. The sheet was published in 1812 by J. Morren of Edinburgh.
Napoleon Bonaparte's (1769-1821) epic retreat from Moscow during the Russian winter of 1812 led to much rejoicing in many European countries, and this ballad is dedicated to the fighting qualities of General Kutusov's (1745-1813) pursuing Russian Army. Following the dreadful Battle of Borodino in September 1812, Napoleon reached Moscow, only to find a virtually deserted city. Unable to march on St Petersburg due to the poor condition of his soldiers, he tried to reach a peace settlement with Tsar Alexander I. Unable to reach an agreement due to his vulnerable position, Napoleon had no option but to commence his famous retreat.
Early ballads were dramatic or humorous narrative songs derived from folk culture that predated printing. Originally perpetuated by word of mouth, many ballads survive because they were recorded on broadsides. Musical notation was rarely printed, as tunes were usually established favourites. The term 'ballad' eventually applied more broadly to any kind of topical or popular verse.