The SECOND PART


Of the Last SPEECH, Confession and dying Words of JAMES DICK, who was
executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 16th of May 1792,. and his Body given to the
Professor of Anatomy to be dissected, For the horrid and cruel murder of his own Wife
-----To which, is added, An account of his behaviour in Prison, and on the Scaffold.*


Her and me continued at our work  doing
middling well till the 3oth of October 1791,
that this melancholy affair happened.    We took
our breakfast together that morning as lovingly
as any two could do in the world ; after break-
fast an acquaintance called upon me and we drank
three or four half mutchkins of whisky together,
and between one and two he asked men to go out with
him, which I did, fore againft my wift's will, we
fell in with some more acquaintances and got a
great deal of drink.   I returned to my house in
the evening much the worse of liquor, and to
the best of my remembrance my wife was not at
home; I was either in bed or going to bed when
this melancholy affair happened, I do not mind
of any words that we had, I went home with no
evil in my heart against her, and I declare I did
not know any thing was wrong till I saw her lying
on the floor.    My next door neighbour came to
the door, which I opened as soon as possible, and
she went and looked at my wife and said she was
gone, she opened her breast and I saw the stab of
a knife in one of her breasts, I then soon turned
sober and thought what would be the consequnce,
but never thought of flying ; so I was apprehend-
ed by James Foyer and a party of soldiers and
committed to the cells all night, next day I was
brought before Mr. Orr, Justice of the Peace,
where I made a declaration of what I thought
could be the reason of it,- but it did me no good.
All you who hear or see of me, take warning and
guard against drinking, for had we not been both
drunk this dismal affair had not  happened, for
when people are the worse of drink they do not
know what they are doing, and things will hap-
pen that you will never get the better of.    And
you married women, take care and keep your-
selves sober, for when you are, the worse of drink
you do not know what you are doing, and every
body makes a prey of you, and you ruin yourself
and family, and drives your husbands into despair
that they  do  not care what becomes of them.
And you husbands, go not astray from your
wives, but nourish and cherish them as your own
souls, and show a good patron before your wives
and  families, and seek the Lord to guide you,
and every thing that is good will attend you; I
reflect greatly on taking my wife's life, but it was
through, drink and despair, for I did not know
what I was doing, and I hope the Lord will for-
give me for this along with the rest of my crimes;
for had I my life to begin again I would not carry
on the life that I have done; and all who see or
hear of me, do not as I have done for the regard
you have to yourselves and the good of your
own souls, for if you are cut off in the midst of your
sins, consider what danger you are in ; I thank
God, that he did not cut me off in the midst
of my sins, but brought me into a place where I
have got my eyes opened, and has given me a
sight of my sins, and time to repent of my folly,
for before this happened I could not be condem-
ned by man, yet I was condemned before God,
though I took little thought about it till now,
but now I see myself condemned both before God
and man, All you sabbath breakers, swearers,
drunkards and the like, turn from your ways
before it be too late. Woe, woe, to the cursed
drink, for it has ruined me, for when I saw my
wife lying on the floor, I would have given all
the world to have heard her speak again, but
[] the deed was done, and I justly suffer, but

since I was condemned it has given me great un-
easiness to think what has become of her poor
soul, for she had not time to say, God have
mercy on her. When I went to my trial I took
little or no thought about it for I thought there
was no proof against me, and when condemned
I was the same, and said they could do no more
to me, and though I was condemned by man I
hoped I was not condemned by God, and took
little or no thought for two or three days, when
Mr. M'Kay came to see how I was, by that time
I was taking thought of what a heinous sinner I
was, and could speak to no person for crying,
and the thoughts of my wife made my heart bleed,
and I told him that it was not the death that I had
to die that I was afraid of, but it was an angry
God that I had to face, he told me he was not
an angry God but a gracious and merciful God,
and showed me several chapters of the Bible, but
I took little thought of them till it pleased the
Lord to send an old comerade out of Edinburgh
to converse with me, for he could not get rest,
when he heard I was condemned, till he see'd me,
and he staid with me opening up the scriptures,
in which I took great delight. And though till
lately I could not have been condemned by the
laws of man, I see myself a long breaker of the
law of God, as it requires perfect love to God
and our neighbour, Mat. xxii. 37,39. I see my-
self to have been an awful transgressor of both
these commandments, and all my sins appear to
me very dark and dismal and now very evil in
my fight. While him and we were conversing
together, I was very dull thinking of my sins
that I could hardly speak to him, and he said
what I was working for, I told him for my sins,
he replied, that work is already done, it is fi-
nished by Jesus Christ, and whosoever believeth
this shall be saved, for proof of this he marked,
down many passages of scripture, and desired me
to mind God's word and not man's. Even when
I first heard this I was somewhat eased in my
mind, but after examining the scriptures, I found
it to be just and true, I was so much eased of
that burden at my heart, that I was almost new
life to me; now I rejoice when I find it written
John iii. 16. That God so loved the world, that he
gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth
in him should have everlasting life, and I account it
a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of
whom I am the chief, so I see that God gave his
Son freely to die for our sins, because there was
no other ransome could satisfy his justice and
sore provoked anger; so  vile were we and full
of sin, that it was necessary that God himself
should be manifested in the flesh, being born of a
virgin, and by his death on the cross suffer for
us, see Isaiah Iiii. and in John chap xix. we have
an account of his sufferings far beyond my power
to describe, in particular at the 30th ver. when
Jesus had received the viniger, he said it is finish-
ed, and bowed his head and gave up the ghost. Now
it was from this very word that I at first took
all my joy, for I am assured that he hath com-
pleated all salvation for the guilty, and God hath
confirmed this by raising him from the dead and
committing unto him all judgement; I am also
assured that whosoever believeth on him shall
never perish, and therefor, though I am a great
sinner, I acknowledge myself to be one of the
chief of sinners, yet I find I have no room for

(2)

despair, nor am I locked up from God's grace,
though I ly chained in bars of iron. The scene
before me is solemn, I am just going to launch
into eternity, and to face that great and terrible
God against whom I have sinned, and Jesus sit-
ing at the right hand, who is able to save and
destroy, the scene will be great, the very thoughts
of it is so affecting, that it must long e'er now
have deprived me of my senses, had not God
who is rich in mercy opened mine eyes by his
word and Spirit, to see his glory as revealed in
the gospel, that he is the just God and the Savi-
our, and that even such a wretch as I is fully
warranted to hope in his mercy, this, and this
alone gives strength and consolation to my soul,
I go to Christ my Saviour and Lord, to his judg-
ment seat who died upon the cross for sinners,
to him I commit my cause, to him I look for sal-
vation; I am also encouraged to hope in the
mercy of God, from the many instances record-
ed in the scriptures of the salvation of sinners,
such as Mary Magdalene, Zaccheus, the jailor
at Philippi, and above all the thief on the cross,
which exactly applys to my case, that it gives me
great comfort. When I consider the love of
Christ I love him, and this leads me to call upon
his name, and to wish I could do any thing to
serve him and his people, and indeed, it is only
through the knowledge of him that all true love
arises either to God or man. When I ponder
in my mind what is recorded of the woman who
kissed the feet of Jesus and washed them with her
tears, and wyped them with the hair of her head,
and what the Lord said about this to Simon the
pharisee, I admire the grace of the Saviour, I
wish it were in my power to kiss his feet; with
what joy and transport could I wash them with
my tears and wype them with the hairs of my
head, but why should I say so? the blessed Jesus
needs none of my washing, it is I a poor poluted
sinner that needs to be washed, and I praise and
magnify his name, that he hath washed my soul
in his most precious blood.

Now this is the confession of my faith, and I
hope, and am persuaded, none who regard the
Bible will disapprove of, seeing I have received
so much comfort from it, and I give God's own
word for the truth of all that I have said; and
it is my earnest desire, that all who see this, may
examine the grounds of considence, and apply
this my remedy which will never fail.

To conclude, I die in peace with all men,
heartily forgiving all who have injured me, and
asking forgiveness from all whom I have injured.

I return my hearty thanks to my Advocate,
and Agents, for they did the utmost in their
power for me; also, to Mr. McKay and John
McDougal, for they have not used me like a
criminal, but like one of their own; but above
all, I return thanks to those who have been the
means, by the grace of God, in enlightening my
mind in the knowledge of the scriptures, I can-
not express what service they have done me, I
leave it to the Lord to recompence them, know-
ing that for his sake they showed me kindness;
and now, O Lord Jesus, I return to thee, these
are my last words, remember me now that thou
art in thy kingdom, and be merciful to me this
day, as thou was to the thief who called to thee
on the cross, and grant that my soul may be
with thee in Paradise, that I may be blessed in
the enjoyment of thee to all eternity. Amen.

(Signed) JAMES DICK.
JOHN M' DOUGAL, Inner Turn-key, witness.


His Behaviour in Prison and on the Scaffold.

IN the iron-room, the forenoon of the day of his execution, he was visited by a gentleman
who gave him suitable exhortations, after which he prayed himself, in the course of which
he prayed earnestly that the Lord might pardon him for shedding innocent blood. After prayer
he desired that a part of the 51st Psalm from the 8th to the 16th v. should be sung, after which
the gentlemen prayed. He was attended in the Hall and on tho Scaffold by the Revd. Mr.
Williamson of the Chapel of Ease here, and behaved decently as one in his unhappy situation.

On the Scaffold he made a long address to the Spectators, warning them to beware of bad
women and drunkenness, and likewise to wives not to give their husbands bad words when
they come home perhaps the worse of liquor. The substance of the whole being in the fore-
going speech.

After mounting the platform he continued a few minutes in a praying posture, after which
he dropped the signal, when he was immediately launched into eterinty  ; after hanging about
half an hour, he was taken down, and his body carried to the Anatomising Class in the College
for dissection.—He was dressed in black.

N. B. He acknowedged that he was in bed when his wife came in, and that he immediately
got up and snatched a knife from a stool with which he gave her the fatal stab.
