THE UNFORTUNATE

Shepherdess.

In the city of Exeter there lived a Squire,
And he had a daughter most beautiful and fair,
And she lov'd a shepherd below her degree,
Which caused her ruin and sad misery.

When her father came to know it his passion grew hot
And with a loaded pistol the young shepherd he shot,
And as he lay bleeding this young lady came by,
Which made her to weep and bitterly cry.

O cursed be the gold my true love's now slain,
My joys are transported to sorrow and pain,
O yes, says the shepherd, none can my life save,
But a wonder you'll see when I'm laid in my grave.

The flocks that I feed my share is but small,
They are fifteen in number they feed on yon hill,
My dear, they'll attend you wherever you go,
They'l be your companions thro' hail wind and snow

She has taen up his crook, his cloak and his plaid,
Like a faithful young shepherd to the valley she
stryed,
When she came to the hill all the sheep to her came,
All bleating and treating her love to obtain,

The old ram she called Andrew & Sally his dame,
Both Johnny and Charlotte knew their own name,
When she wish'd them to stay on any green plain,
She said, you'll stay here till I come again.

With humble submission they always do say,
When she says too long, they all mourning go,
With a humble submission they bleat in her face,
There's not such a token in the whole human race.

She wander'd through England, to Scotland she
came,
You true love controllers you see what's their doom.
The shepherd's no more, and her father soon died,
For the loss of his daughter, and the murder besides

If I would return to my father's bright hall,
I might live in splendour, but that I ne'er shall,
She says, I will wander till death ends the strife,
Lamenting my shepherd all the days of my life.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Wholesale Stationer,
11 King St., City, Glasgow.   Upwards of 50,000 different
sorts always on hand; also, a great variety of Picture books,
Song-books, Histories, &c.   Shops and Hawkers supplied
Soiree and Ball Cards, Large Posting and Hand Bills, In-
voice Tops, Circulars, Business and Fancy Cards, Society Ar-
ticles, Pamphlets, and every description of Letterpress Print-
ing done neatly and quickly.   Lithographing, &c., &c.