SONG.

Air—He's o'er the Hills.

THEY'RE dear to me, the hills of Perth,
Those rolling floods, these golden plains,
The home of joy, the land of worth,
Where beauty smiles and valour reigns!

These rocks and glens are dear to me,
Those shady groves that waive so fair;
Each hall, each bower, each cot I see,
And the loyal hearts that shelter there.

Our Lords, our Squires, are brave and good,
Our honest Yeomen frank and free;
In heart united long they've stood,
May discord ne'er among them be!

Our Peasants ply their cheery toil,
No hate, no rancour clouds their brow ;
They love and bless the grateful soil,
Whose harvest crowns their prosp'rous plough.

When lawless men with daring hand,
Assail each prized, each sacred thing,
Here Loyalty will take her stand
For Scotland's laws, for Britain's King.

For Church and State we'll still contend,
By courage cheered, by duty led;
And firm with heart and voice defend
The cause for which our fathers bled;

Such was the spirit ATHOLL breathed,
The patriot Duke we hail no more ;
In yonder woods his fame is wreathed,
Their echoes still his fate deplore.

And MELVILLE'S name can ne'er be lost,
Whose column decks his loved domain ;
The poor man's friend, his country's boast—
We ne'er shall see his like again !

And mark, on FERNTOWER'S friendly hill,
Yon answering pillar lifts its head;
'T is there with noble sorrow still,
The widow weeps her hero dead.

Yet, Lady, dry the fruitless tear,
Let glory's thoughts thy woe allay;
With India's trophies round his bier,
Thy husband's deeds can ne'er decay.

Though these, alas! and more, are gone.
We grieve not as of all bereft ;
MONTROSE and MANSFIELD are our own.
And good STRATHALLAN still is left.

O, bright are DUPLIN'S flowery lawns,
Her lawns are bright, her MASTER'S true—
Secure we look to fair KINFAUNS,
And the bonny house of AIRLEY too.

And far up Tay's green banks are found,
Among the foe, a faithful band,
The MENZIES there fast holds his ground,
'Gainst Campbell's proud encroaching hand.

We boast KILGRASTON'S soft retreat,      
Where Earn pursues her silver way;
And stedfast are the hearts that beat
" Among the Birks of INVERMAY."

' T were vain the long array to sing
Whose names might well the song inspire;
But yet again I'11 touch the string,
To sound " The Braes of OCHTERTYRE."

And HE, the valiant in the fight,
The Statesman wise, the Friend long tried.
He pleaded well for Scotland's right,
To HIM our cause we'll still confide.

When doubts and fears, in gloomy train,
And threatening dangers round appear,
Ne'er may we raise the cry in vain,
" O, would that MURRAY now were here !"

With HIM to guide, and such as HE,
The hour of darkness soon is o'er;
Our Country's safe, our King is free.
And Peace and Order thine once more!