BUBLIN BAY.

PRICE ONE PENNY

This original parody should be sung with a music book in
the hand of the vocalist, and, previous to commencing the
song, the following preface should be spoken, by the singer,
to the audience:-

Ladies and Gentlemen,-This is a song, no doubt, you
have all heard before. I have not the tune, exactly, as I
am no judge of music; however, as I have plenty of it in
this book,I am almost sure I will be pretty near it before.
I am done. The words were kindly handed to me by a
young female, who was acquainted with a young man, who
wrought in the same work with a married man, that lived
in the same land with an old woman who was acquainted
with one of the guards on the Barrhead Railway, that knew
a woman, a cab driver, that spoke to a man who broke stones
in a baker's shop in Rutherglen, that was acquainted with
a young man, who frequented the Saturday Evening Con-
certs in Pollokshaws, every Wednesday evening So I will,
now endeavour to give it to you. (To the pianist.) Be
kind enough to play Dublin Bay on three sharps, fourteen
flats, and I'll take all the blunt you have got,

Air-John Gramlie,

They sailed away in a gallant barque,
Bob Neil and Jess M'Bride,
They ventured all on the bounding oak,
That danced (dances) on the silvery tide;
For his heart was young and his spirits light,
So he bashed his tears away,
As he viewed the shore recede from sight,
Of his own sweet Bublin Bay.

Three days we sailed when a storm arose,
And the lightning flashed the deep,
The thunder's crash broke the wild repose
Of the weary sea-boy's sleep.
Bob Neil he clasped his weeping bride,
And box'd his tears away,
Oh, Bob! said she, it was all your fault;
That we left sweet Bublin Bay.

On the crowded deck of the doomed ship.
Some stood in wild despair,
While some more calm, to keep themselves warm.
Began to tear their hair.
They struck on a rock, a wee chap cried,   
In the breath of his wild dismay,
And the ship went down on the top of their crown,
As they sailed from Bublin Bay.      

LETTERS, PETITIONS, VALENTINES, and LOVE
SONNETS, Written by the POET on the most reasonable
Terms. All kinds of SCHEDULES filled up with the utmost accuracy. 
In all cases the most inviolable secrecy may
be depended upon.                                          

Saturday Morning, July 11, 1837.         