JAMIE RAEBURN

ANNIE DEAR,  GOODBYE

THD LOWLANDS OF HOLLAND     OVER THE SEA TO SKYE

James Raeburn's Farewell to Scotland.

Air—Original.

My  name is Jamie Raeburn, near Glasgow I was born,
My place and habitation I'm forced to leave with scorn,
From my  place of habitation I now must gang awa',
Far frae the bonnie hills and dales of Caledonia.

'Twas early one morning, just by the break of day,
I overheard the turnkey, who unto us did say—
Arise, ye hapless convicts, arise ye ane and a' ,
This is the day ye are to stray from Caledonia.

We all arose, put on our clothes, our hearts were full of grief,
Our friends they  a' stood round the coach, could grant us
no relief ;
Our friends they  a' stood round the coach, their hearts were
broke in twa,
To see us leave the bonnie braes of Caledonia.

Farewell my aged mother, I'm vexed for what I've done,
I hope none will upoast to her the race that I haverun;
I hope that she'll be provided for when I am far awa',
Far from the hills and dales of Caledonia.

Farewell my honoured father, he is the best of men,
And likewise my own sweetheart, young Catherine was her
          name;
Nae mair we'll wander doon by  Clyde, nor yont the Broomielaw
For I must leave the hills and braes of Caledonia.

The next place that we meet again I hope 'twill be above,
Where hallelujahs will be sung to Him who reigns in love,
Nae earthly judge shall judge us then but He who rules us a',
Farewell, ye bonnie hills and dales of Caledonia.

Annie, Dear, Good-bye.

I'm leaning o'er the gate, Annie,
'Neath my cottage wall,
The grey dawn breaks, the hour grows late,
I hear the trumpet's call;
I could not brook thy cheek so pale,
The sad tear in thine eye ;
This heart which laughs at war might quail,
So Annie, dear, good-bye.

I'm marching with the brave, Annie,
Far from home and theo,
To win renown, perhaps a grave,
A glorius one 'twill be.
But whatsoe'er tho fate I meet,
To conquer or to die,
This heart's last throb for thee will best,
So Annie, dear, good-bye.

The Lowlands of Holland.

The love that I hae chosen, I'll therewith be content,
The saut sea shall be frorzen, before that I repent ;
Repent it shall I never, until the day I dee,
But the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love lies in the saut sea, and I am on the side,
Enough to break a young thing's heart, wha lately  was a bride,
Wha lately was a bonnie bride, and pleasure in her e'e;
But the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love has built a bonnie ship, and set her on the sea,
Wi' seven soore good mariners to bear her companie;
There's three-score is sunk, and three-score dead at sea,
And the lowlands of Holland has twined my love and me.

My love, ho built another ship, and set her on the main,
And nane but twenty mariners for to bring her hame;
But the weary wind began to rise, and the sea began to rout,
My love then and his bonnie ship turn'd withershins about.

There shall neither coif come on my head, nor kaim come in
my hair,
There shall neither coal nor candle light shine in my bowor
mair;
Nor will I love another ane, until the day  I dee,
For I never loved a love but ane, and he's drowned in the sea !

Go haud your tongue, my daughter dear, be still, and be
          content,
There are mair lads in Galloway, ye needna sair lament.
O there is nane in Galloway, there's nane at a' for me,
For I never lov'd a love but ane, and he's drown'd in the sea.

Over the Sea to Skye.

Jacobite Song.    Sung  by  Miss  Stewart.

Speed, bonnie boat, like a bird on the wing,
Onward, the sailors cry,
Carry the lad that's born to the King,
Over the seas to Skye.

Loud the winds howl, loud the waves roar,
Thunder clouds rend the air;
Baffled, our foes stand by the shore-
Follow they will not dare.

Speed bonnie 'boat, &c.

Though the waves leap, soft shall we sleep—
Ocean's a royal  bed ;
Rocked in the deep, Flora  will  keep
Watch by your weary head.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Many's the lad fought on that day
Well the claymore could wield
When the night came silently lay
Dead on Culloden's field.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Burned are our homes, exile and death
Scatter the royal men ;
Yet ere the sword cool in the sheath
Charlie will came again.

Speed bonnie boat, &c.

Copies can always be had at the Poets' BOx Overgate, Dundee.