Sally Munro.

Come all yon young females I pray yon attend,
Unto these fow line that I have here pen'd;
I'll tell you the hardships I did undergo,
With my bonny lass called Sally Munro,
James Dixon's my name,I'm a blacksmith by rade
In the town of Ayr I was born and brod,
From that unto Belfast I lately did go,
There I got acquainted with Sally Munro.

I to this young lassie a letter did send,
It was by a comrade, I thought him a friend,
Instead of a friend to me, he proved a foe,
He ne'er gave my letter to Sally Munro.
He told  her old mother to beware of me,
He said I'd a wife in ray own country;
O, then said her old mother, now since it be so,
He ne'er shall enjoy his young Sally Munro.
For two months and better I never could hear,
A word from the lass that I once loved so dears
Until that one evening, 'twas in Sandy Row,
It s who should I meet bat young Sally Munro.
I told her if she'd come to Newry with me,
In spite of her parents there marrird we'd be
She says, no objections I have now to go,
if you will prove constant to Sally Munro.

Now here is my hand love and here is my hear
Till death seperates us, we never will part;
Next day in a coach we for Newry did go,
And there I got married to Sally Manro.
Twasat Warren's Point the ship Newry lay,
With four hundred passengers ready for sea;
We then paid oar passage for Quebec also,
And there I embarked with Sally Manro.

On the 14th of April, from the Point we set sa
And bore down the channel with a pleasent gale ;
The parting of friends caus'd some tears for to flow
Bull was quite happy with Sally Muaro.
On the second evening there came on a fog,
There on the Welsh coast our fine vessel did [   ]
To Caernarvon bay, while all were below,
I ne'er thought'twas there I'd part with Sally
Monro.

At nine o'clock that night nigh Bardsey we drew,
But the mist hid both light and land from view,   '
The woman and children were all down below,
And amongst the rest was my Sally Munro.
Here dreading no danger we met with a shock,
Twas all on a sudden she struck upon a rock ;
Twe hundred and sixty who were down below,
Were drowned and so I lost Sally Munro.

Many a man in this voyage lost his dear wife,
And children he loved far better than life;
I was preserved, yet salt tears do flew,
And I sigh wben I think on my Sally Munro.
It Wae from her parents I took her away,
Which will cheak my conscience till my dying day.
It was not to injure her that! really did so.
All my life I will mourn for my Sally Munro.