A
Discription of a Kirk
Treasurer.

Or an Elegic on John Couper.

CURST Judas did this office first begin.
He, bore the Bag, and kept what  was therein,
To his own life he some part did apply
To feed his Lusts, and made a great outcry,
Of needless Waste, and ill deserved Cost,
Bestow'd on Christ, he did account in  lost,
Why was this precious Ointment lost said he?
And was not sold, and Money given to me,
Who piotly would Distribut in sure,
As need  Requir'd among the Starving Peat.
Unto this Office Judas had a Call,
By Eccles 'astick Orders tho for all
His Sacret function, he Committed This.
And taught's Successous how to make a Shift,
To garber Pelt and Charity pretend,
Yer with it  he did make a dreaful End,
But whence is it that Lay-Men Trused be,
With Sacred  Treasure, Stores of Charity,
The Priests and Lewits Ancciently were those,
Who kept this Store and of old  Dispose,
To Pious uses and Religiously
The Appostl s did appoint the charity,
And Offering for the poor to be Dispens'd,
By Deacons Eccle 'stickly  Lieserfied,
Whence is it then that Lay-men low they trust
With Sacred Treasures [illegible] to that just
Order Divine once instituted by
The Apostl's who could neither Err not Ly,
This mungral post  'twixt Lay and Clergy hirgs,
Amphibicous frogs and Catterpilers brings,
The  free will Offerings and price of a Whoore
Into the  Churches Store to give the Poor,
The Sacred Treasure and she privet Fines,
The Secret Bribes for penetential Sins, 
Bull  Money, Buttock Mail and Hackney Hire,
And what they can by any means  aquire,
All Hotch Potch Jumbled in the Churches pure, 
They afterward Religiously Deburse,
First to the private Pocket, next to that,
The Hackney Ladys must reeds have some what;
For fair Discov'ries of foul facts and when,
These are  Rewarded Needy Poet may then,
Get  the Remainder of  the sacred state, 
The Compt's Adjusted with I have no more
Sins Scandalous which ought to be Reprov'd, 
And own'd in publick e're the  Stains Remov'd 
They privately do barrgan for and hide,
And Dsspensations grant, if they abide
Firm Cuttemers, and duely pay their Fees.
Or Liesence Money they may have an ease.
The Simon Mes\ill\us did attempt in Vain,
To buy the Holy Ghost to get him gain;
They  far out do him, for these Men can sell.
Their Liesences to men to post to Hell.