She put her Hand upon his Scull,

with this Prophetick blessing. Be thou Dull, &c.



YE Coblers, and Taylors draw near,
Your Speecher is Low turn'd Poet,
That his Roundels are his own, you may Swear        
by each Stupid line, I could know it;

And up wi'd Alie, Alie. Up wi'd Alie now,&c.

And now my dear Mob, 'tis for You,
That his Ballad is set to the Trump,
The Musick is Pleasant and New,
And of piece with the Comical  Lump.

And up wi'd Alie,Alie, Up wi'd she new, &c.

O ! To see how the World's beguild,
Your Hero was therght to have Mettle,
But Sence most Disdainfully  smil'd,
And the Fool prov'd Knave in a little.

And up wi'd Alie, Alie, Up wi'd Alie new, &c.

For though  in France he was deep in a Plot.
And Shaned Us here with another,
And two Thousand Pounds he has got,
And meerly by Bubling  his Brother.
And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.

Yet the Syringe and Damnable Fluid, 

Does rightly  Decipher his   Riddle,

What hapred to this vertuos Druid,              

When he caught the Lady s---t by   the midle,

And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.

His Speeches the Treary knockt down,
with Tu quoque mi fili squadrone,
Will  SCOTLAND part with Her crown;
And the  Freedom of  Drinking Tippone
And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.

 The Droget, false Brans and his Bell,
And all his Ridiculous prose.
His Lordship a blockhead did tell,
Which his blunt heavy rhyming now  shows,
 And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.  



Was there eversuch Rhetorick found.
A pox on the Villanous rains
The Deludge his reason has drowned.
And His  Lordship  must fish for his brains

And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.

That this Hero the Treaty Oppos'd,
Could neither  from Thames nor Tyne,
But a  Message that many suppos'd.
Come over with Burgundy Wine.
And up wi'd Alie, Alie, &c.

Some had it by Pen and Ink,
That in the Cause were Keen,
To Others was Tipped a Wink;
That had no Will to be Seen.
And up wi'd Alie, Alie, Up wi'd Nis Alie now &c.

F  I  N  I  S.                       