HARE'S

DREAM !

Describing the Appari-
tions of Burke and others,
which appeared to him
while in the Calton Jail.

Good people all give ear to what I say,
'Twill make your very blood run cold,
And fill you with dread dismay,
When the truth to you I've told.
The cries of sixteen murdered souls
Does still ring in my ears,
And through my cell one voice it rolls,
Which haunts my mind with fears.
Crying, William Hare, I pray beware
Of the approaching day,
When earthly joys and earthly care
Must then be thrown away.
It is for near a long long year,
You have led a murdering life,
Without either dread or fear,
"Midst rioting and strife.
Last night as I lay on my bed,
And sleeping I was sound,
Strange fancies then came in my head,
Which much did me confound.
Me thought I wander'd on the street,
And singing very crouse,
Till with a man I chanc'd to meet,
And led him to my house.
When to the house I led him in,
To him I seem'd a brother,
To give him whisky did begin,--
When drunk I did him smother.
I dragg'd him by the lint white locks,
While Burke was standing by,
And put him in to a large box,
Then for the Doctor Burke did fly.
I thought the flesh fell off his bones,
Then as a skeleton he did appear,
It vanish'd in its dying groans,
Which fill'd me with great fear.
Then I awoke but sleep'd again,
O horror ! what a sight,
The child that I one night had slain,
In an angel's form shone bright.
You've come, sweet angel, heavenly bright,
To tell me of my crime,
Why thus disturb me here to-night,
And at no other time.
Next Burke appear'd within my cell,
Chain'd with the murderer's fetter,
"Hear, Hare, hear, what I've to tell,
Try change your life for better.
O  William Hare with me bewail,
Turn from your evil ways,
I  say this from my lips in jail,
Hark what a murderer says. "
I thought my liberty I had got,
But with sorrow was deceiv'd,
For when in jail that I awoke,
Still was there unrelieved.
O cruel and bloody that I was,
To think on killing men,
And that without the slightest cause,
Decoyed them to my den.
Such thoughts as these were what I made,
After that I had awoke,
But let it ne'er again be said,
That there lives such a rogue.
O silent sleep,--I'll ne'er sleep again,
To think on't makes me shiver ;
What tortures and what cruel pain,--
Forget it shall I never.
And whether in night's silent hour,
Or in the sun shine day,
Still will remain at my mind's door,
Till I the debt of nature pay.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

THE ONLY AUTHENTIC EDITION

OF THE

TRIAL OF BURKE AND M'DOUGAL.

THE PUBLISHEAS, in compliance with the urgent desire of  their nn-

merous friends, have determined to bring out, in Two Parts,



A FULL AND CORRECT REPORT

(Taken in Short Hand by Mr. John M'Nee)

OF THE CASE OF
WILLIAM BURKE  & HELEN  McDOUGAL, 

WHO WERE

Tried before the High Court of Justiciary on Wednesday the 24th

December  current,

FOR  THE

MURDER OF MARGERY CAMPBELL,

Under the most Peculiar Circumstances.

This FIRST PART contains an ORIGINAL PREFACE,including cu-
rious particulars of the pannels, and Hare and his wife; the in-   
dictment; List of witnesses; List of the Assiso; the Speeches of
THE COUNSEL and the Opinions of THE JUDGES on the Relevancy
of the Indictment; a Portion  of the Evidence, both Question and
Answer, &c.&c.illustrated with CORRECT LIKENESSES of the PAN-
NELS, and HARE, their Associate, taken when at the Bar.

PART SECOND, completing the Publication, will be published with
the utmost despatch consistent with accuaracy, and will contain the 
remainder of the Evidence, the luminous and brilliant Speeches of 
the LORD ADVOCATE,DEAN of FACULTY, and Mr. HENRY COCK-
BURN, accompanied with a Plan of the Premises, a View of the 
Interior of Burke's House, as it appeared the day after the Trial, a 
fac-simile of Burke's Handwriting Title, Contents, &c. & c.

    The Publishers beg respectfully to announce, that the Opinions 
of the Learned JUDGES who presided, and the Speeches delivered by 
the eminent COUNSEL for the Crown and the Pannels, engaged in 
this extraordinary Case, have been BY THEM MOST OBLIGINGLY RE-
VISED. They trust this anxiety to give as full and  authentic a report  
as can be produced, will give their edition a decided superiority over
every other. 

Printed for R.BUCHANAN, 26, George Street; W.HUNTER, 23,
Hanover street; and J.STEVENSON, 87, Prince's Street, Edinburgh.     


We understand that the investigation into the late criminal trans-
actions has been renewed, and is still continued with unabated industry.
On Monday several of the anatomical teachers met with the Lord Advo-
cate, at his request. This meeting was confidential; but its
object was no doubt to procure such information as might prove useful
in bringing out a more full disclosure of the late nefarious transactions.

--Edinburgh Evening Post. 
