CHARLIE MASH OR THOSE

GIRLS AT THE SCHOOL,

Sung by James Fawn, the London comic.
THIS POPULAR SONG CAN BE HAD POET'S Box, Overgate Dundee,

My name's Chrlie Mash, and I've just come from school,
With the heartache, the blues, and the tears in my eyes;
I've had a good hiding' they have called me a spoon,
If I wasn't afraid, for two pins I would die
For not far from ours is a school for young ladies,             
Who giggle and simper wherever we meet!
I love them all madly and wildly snd fondly,
Those girls at the school at the end of the street,

Spoken—The first one I spoke to was a Scotch girl. I offered   ..
my her heart and a bun.   She took the bun. and said the he-
art she couldn't be fashed with, and in a voice reminding me
of the sound of bagpipes, said:—

Chorus-.-Eh, mon! by caller herrin'.
Ye ken I'v no love for yersel' at a'
I'm brawly, think ye for speerin',
Dinna ye fash yersel', hoot awa'.

Though crushed and defeated in this ray first love,
I thought it was nosense to give in to grief;
So I swore to possess a young thing they called Frenchy,
And fancied at last my poor heart found relief.
I couldn't write French, though I sent her a billy,
Nor knew what it ment when I murmured, Toot sweet:
But I made up my to run over to Perry.
With this girl from the school at the end of the street.

Spoken—But she said—
Cories—Vive la more or less is vco voolly;
Tray be hang ke vcolly voo,
Ally  voos oug la spurae de Chester,
Parley voo Fracy, wee mossoo.

Some would have been with these failures disheartened,
Have shounned such a world so unkind, so untrue,
And waited some time before trying another,
But I—no—I loved, and I didn't cair who.
And soon I saw one whom I thought I had conquered,
who made my pulse throb and my heart wildely beat,
Who robbed me of sleeq and my  fondness for pudding,
A girl at the school at the end of the street.

Spoken—She was a German and when I told her I loved her
she said--   
Chors--- Yah, nein; sausages polony!
Is das so? sauerkraut myneer!
Ish liebi dich, vere ish my poodle,
Gracious goot gootness! lager beer,

Thus hertsick and lonely , with love unrequited,
I silently dashed from my eye the salt tear,
And couldn't eat more than nine buns after dinner,
And after six bottles I loathed giuger beer.
But love's flame was kindled once more in my bosam,
I swore that I never would suffer defeat,
So I offered my heart and my haund and tree half-pence
To another young girl at the end of the street.

Spoken-She was Greek, and exclaimed-
Chous—Here's another injustice to Ireland,
Erin, my country, my heart bleeds for you;
I'll knock corners off you, spalpeen mavoureen
Begorra, be jabers, bedad, and hurroo.

How sad that a fond heart like mine should be pining
For someone to love who would love in return,
Make anyone happy, this life's only object,
But nobody seems for this object to yearn,
I tempt them with jumbles and arrowoot biscuts,
And apples and nuts down my trousers secrete,
My sweets the've accepted but me they've rejected,
Those girls at the school at the end of the street.

Spoken—The nixt I proposed to was Richal Jacobs, When
I asked her if he'd be mine, she said —
Chorus--Oh s'help me, ain't he guiver,
I'll tell my brothers ilk, Manny and mo,  
Jumping Moses! and ain't got on ooftish,
Go and sell lemons, fried fish, and old clo.