GIVE ME THE GIRL THAT'S
TENDER AND TRUE.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

This popular  .Song can always be  had  at the Poat's Box,
182 OVERGATE DUNDEE.

My taste it is simple, I care not for wealth,
So long as I'm blest with a good share of health ;
I'll tell you my wants and I hope you'll agree—
It takes very little to satisfy me.
I am not ambitious, nor yet spent an hour
In pining for places, position, or power :
No envy have I for our rulers above,
But glory in gaining true frendship and  love.

CHORUS.

Then give me the girl that's tender and true ;
Give me the friend that is faithful to you ;
Give me a pipe, a glass, and a song,
And I'll be as  happy as the days are long.

In search of enjoyment wher'er we may roam,
There's none that can equal the sweet joys of home,
If there we have pleasure, contentment, and health,
Domestic felicity I think the best.
But some seek for fame in some far distant fields,
And see what an empty illuson it yields ;
Let some seek for pleasure however they may,
I'll still enjoy life in my own quite way.

It's no use to hurry or flurry I find,
To gather up hords that we must leave behind ;
Regrets will not alter our station a jot,
So try to be happy what e'er is youre lot.
Remember that happiness does not depend
Upon the amount of cash that you spend ;
for the days are most happy, and so are the nights,
That are spent in the simplest and purest delights.

You'll find ere my song to finish it is brought.
That true frendship and love they are not to be bought
And these we may trust, what e'er may befall—
And that's why I prize them dearer than all,
The pipe has its smoothing effect on the mind ;
The glass and the song cheers the heart when combined :
With frends all around and the girl you admire,
What else is there left in this world to desire.

 SONGS ! SONGS !!    SONGS !!!

The largest Variety of Songs in Scotland is at the

POET'S Box, 182 OVEGATE, DUNDEE.

PRINTED by Wm. SHEPHERD, 182 Overgate, DUNDEE