One Man sentenced to Death.

Trial & Sentence

Of all the Prisoners since the opening of the Circuit ' Court
of Justiciary at Glasgow on Monday the 27th Sept,

Glasgow, 27th Sept. 1824.—This day the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened
here by the Right Hon. the Lords Hermand and Succoth, when, after an impres-sive
prayer by the Rev. Patrick M Farlane, the Court proceeded to try the follow-ing
cases:— 
William Comb, james Ogilvie, John Brown, William Hunter, and Robert Camp-
bell, accused of 3 separate acts of theft; libel not proven, and they were dismissed.
Margaret M'Williams and Mary Ferguson, accused of uttering forged notes in
Glasgow—M'Williams to be transported 7 years ; Ferguson dismissed.
Mitchel or Michael Harkins, accused of uttering forged notes in Clyde Street,
on 16th July last, pleaded Guilty—Sentence, 7 years transportation.
Andrew Hamilton, accused of theft at Nethanfoot or Crossford, was outlawed.
Wm. Ogilvie and Margaret Russell, charged with housebreaking in King Street,
Calton, were found Guilty of theft, and are to be transported 14 years.
Robert Byers, charged with reset of watches, which had been stolen from Luke
Lindsay, watchmaker, Gmenock, pled Guilty; to be transported 7 years..
Peter Henderson, accused of six different acts of theft, pled Guilty to the sixth
charge, but not of the other five—Sentence, Bridewell 12 months.
James Knox and Roderick M'Donald, accused of theft, were sound Guilty—
Caox to be transported 7 years, and M'Donald, 12 months in Bridewell.
John Walker, accused of robbory in the Gallowgate of Glasgow on the 7th July
last; the libel was found not proven, and ho was dismissed.
Wm. Burns, jas..Hartley and Jas. M'Kirdy, charged with the murder of Alexr.
M'Farlane, in the county of Dumbarton, on the 23d April last; libel Not Proven
against the first and last, and they were dismissed; Hartley guilty of culpable ho-
miside, and sentenced to 9 months imprisonment in Bridewell.
John Macbride, bleacher, Mearns, for assaulting and stabbing D. Cuthbersson,
tailor, Barrhead, was found Guilty, and is to be transported 7 years.
Elizabeth Guthrie alias Betty Burnett, theft, goes to Edinburgh in November-William
Steel, merchant, Glasgow, for perjury; outlawed.
Betty Micklewell, or M'Callum, theft outlawed.
James M'Dowal, accnsed of murdering his wife.—Trial postponed.
Catharine M'Laren, child murder and concealment of pregnancy, was found
Guilty of concealment, and sentenced to 18 months imprisonment.
John M'Auslan, charged with assaulting the lieges, was found Guilty, and is to
be publicly whipped in Glasgow and imprisoned 2 years.
Ann, Fanny, and Philip Farmer, theft, the former habit and repute, were found
Guilty, and sentenced the 1st to 18, the 2d 12, and the 3d to 6 months in Bridewell
J. Dougherty and E. Prunty or Prentice,theft-Gajtity, 6 months in Bridewell.
William Taylor,Daniel M'Coll, Thomas Cumming, Thos. Davies and William
[  ] Caldwell, accused of robbery in Glasgow; M'Coll, Cumming and Caldwell
were dismissed; Taylor to be transporter for life, and after a suitable admonition,
Thomas Davies was sentenced to be Excuted at Glasgow on the 17th of No-vember
next.
W. Carse, printer, Glasgow.