A COMICAL

Wedding,

Between an Old Bachelor 65 years of age,
and a Young Woman of 19

The inhabitants of this town were highly
delighted and amused on the night of Tues-
day last, by a Wedding of rather a singular
and uncommon description which took place
here on that day, and afforded no little sport
to the young and old of both sexes, who had
assembled in great numbers to meet the
wedding-party returning from the house of
the Rev. Mr---------; but, which ended in
creat trouble to the luckless bridegroom, by
name A------M--------. a bachelor of sixty-
five years of age, who was completely duped
by a young man named J------B---------, a
former lover of the fair but faithless bride.
The bride's name is Jane R---------, and she
has lately completed her nineteenth year,

As soon as they made their appearance'
the aged bridegroom was assailed by the
most tremendous cheers, groans, and hisses,
by the assembled crowd. He was evidently
prepared for the reception he met with, but
not so the bride, who being one who could
out-run the moat of the assailants, put mettle
in her heels, and lost no time in making her
escape, and arrived safe at the house which
was intended for her new home.

The remainder of the party having weather-
ed the storm, got into port along with her. Af-
ter all these things were over, they sat down
to supper, which was followed by mighty
rivers of Mountain Dew, and a great number
of uninvited guests having arrived, among
whom were J. B. the bride's former lover.
Songs and mirth then commenced, and al
went on as happy as a marriage bell, till a
trifling circumstance occured which com-
pletely marred the prosperity of the evening
Their heads being now turned with drink,
most of the party were completely mesmer-
ized on the destructive bumps. This was
occasioned by some unfavourable remark
made on the singing of a song.

The little spark soon kindled into a flame,
and a general battle ensued—glasses and
tumblers were flying in all directions like
snow balls, even the poker, tongs, and fen-
der were put in requisition in this amusing
scene. The engagement was so hot, that
several tailors, shoemakers, barbers, old
maids, and wanton widows were severely
wounded in the affray. In the midst of h
confusion, the bridegroom escaped into an
adjoining room, where, after the 'atigues of
the night, he fell asleep ; but alas ! when he
awoke out of his slumber, what was his sur-
prise to find no one in the house but himself;
and, to add to his difficulties, on going to his
chest he found, to his amazement and grief, ..
that Jane R., his fickle bride, had decamped
with all his money, amounting to £180, 6s.,
taking her former sweetheart J. B. along with
her, leaving the bachelor to look out for an-
other help-mate more faithful than his last.

Sanderson, Printer, high Street, Edinburgh