CHARLIE STUART

AND HIS

TARTAN PLAIDY.

When Charlie first came frae the North,
With the manly looks of a Highland laddie,
He made every true Scotch heart for to warm,
When they viewed the lad with the tartan plaidy.

CHORUS.

Love, farewell! friends, farewell !
To guard my king I bid all farewell!

When King George he heard of this,
He'd ganed forth to heir his dady,
He sent Johnnie Cope to the North
To catch the lad with the tartan plaidy.

When Cope came to Inverness,
They told him he was south already,
And like a lion he conquered all
By the virtue of his tartan plaidie.

When they came to Aberdeen,
The English fleet was lying ready
To carry them over to Edinburgh town,
To catch the lad with the tartan plaidy.

At Prestonpans they formed their plans,
Where many a baby lost its dady,
Our noble prince stood in the front,
And he wasna afraid to show his plaidy.

Then Johnnie Cone addressed his men,
Saying, if ye baith be stern and steady,
Thirty thousand pounds I will lay down
If ye'll catch me the lad with the tartan plaidy.

Then our noble prince addressed his men,
Saying, if ye be baith stem and steady,
I'll set ye down in this kingdom free,
If ye fecht for me to keep my plaidy.

Then the Duke of Perth stood on his right,
The bold Montrose and brave Glengarry,
The Isle of Skye, the brave Lochiels,
M'Larens bold, and brave Macready.

At Prestonpans they formed their plans,
Regarding neither son or dady,
Like the wind frae the sky he made them fly
With every shake of his tartan plaidy.

A painted room and a silken bed
Would hardly please a German lairdie,
But a fur better prince than e'er he was
Lay among the heather in his tartan plaidy.

THE

INNISKILLEN

DRAGOON

A beautiful damsel of same and renown,
A gentleman's daughter near Monaghan town,
As she rode by the barracks, this beautiful maid,
She stood in the coach to see the dragoons parade.

They were all dressed out like gentlemen's sons,
With  their bright  shining swords and carbine
guns,
With their silver-mounted pistols she observed
them full soon,
Because that she loved her Inniskillen Dragoon.

The bright sons of Mars as they stood on the right
Their armour did shine like the bright stars of
night;
She says, lovely Willie, you've listed too soon,
To serve as a Royal Inniskillen Dragoon.

O beautiful Flora, your pardon I crave,
Both now and for ever I will be your slave,
Your parents insult you both morning and noon
For fear you should wed your Inniskillen Dragoon.

O now dearest Willie, mind what I say,
For children are obliged their parents to obey,
But when you're leaving Ireland they all change
their tune,
Saying, the Lord be with you Inniskillen Dragoon.

Farewell Inniskillen, farewell for awhile,
And all around the borders of Erin's Isle,
And when the wars are over you'll return in full
bloom,
They'll all welcome home the Inniskillen Dragoon

Now the war is over, and they have returned at
last,
The regiment lies in Dublin, and Willie's got a
pass;
Last Sunday they were married, and Willie was
the groom,
And now she enjoys her Inniskillen Dragoon.

JAMES KAY, GLASGOW.

PRICE  ONE  PENNY.