The pretended Prince of Wales's New
Exercise of the SCOTCH Lang Goon.

Tak  care on your sell, sir, noow,

Jeen your Speun Haund to your Lang Goon.
Hod him up, Sir.
Hod him doown the Speun Seede, hod him down noow.
Opin your Kittle, Sir.

         Opin you Kittle wi' the Baw of your Speun Thumb.
Haundle your Deuste Box.
Caust the Black Sawt int' your Kittle, Sir.
Hod up your Lang Goon.

Blaw off your Loose Deuste,  [au Mukle Blawste, Mon.
Hod your Lang Goon doown to your Cogue Seede.
Haundle your Deuste-Box, Sir.
Tak his Bonnit in your Teeth.
Poo her hinder End awaw Mon.
Caust your Black Sawt int' her Wem, Sir.
Caust a Cogle intull her Wem.
Tak the Lunt from your Bonnit.
Stop it in her Moo.
Grip your Lang Wond.
Lug him owte.
Hod him up, Sir.
Short'n't to a Waw-bitanent your Reeght Pop.
Stuck it in her Moo.
Wod it doown in the Deel's Naume, Mon.
Lug out your Lang Wond, Sir.
Short'n't in you Speun Haund anent your Reeght Pop,
Your Lang Wond intull its Hoose now.
Hod up your Lang Goon, Sir.
Band doown your Goose-Crag, and hod him owte.
Sat him to your Shouder.
Lat flee in the Deel's Naume, Mon.                       (awltogether.
Hod up your Lang Goon, and hod him doown to the Cogue Seede
Your Speun Haund to your Mukle Whuniard, Sir.
Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard.
Stop your Mukle Whuniard intull the Moo of your Lang Goon.
Hod up your Lang Goon.   Hod him up at me, Sir.
Doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To the Speun Hand down wi' your Lang Goon.
Stell to the Speun Haund doown wi' himageen. Sir.
To the Speun Hand, yit Mon, doown wi'you Lang Goon.
Noow at me, doown wi' him ageen.
Sat your Fauce where your Aurse stonds, and be domn'd t' ye.
Noow at me, doow wi' him ageen.
Noow to the Cogue Haund doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To John-a-Groats Hoose Mon, doown wi' your Lang Goon.
To John-a-Groats Peas-Stauck, doown wi' your Lang Goon.
Noow at me, doown wi' him ageen, Sir.
Ha' ye forgot Mon what I toud ye ?
Put your Fauce where your Aurse stonds, and be Domn'd t'  ye.
Noow at me, hod him up and hod him doown to the Cogue Seede
Your Speun Haund to your Mukle Whuniard, Sir.    (aw together
Lug owte your Mukle Whuniard.
Your Mukle Whuniard intull his Hoose noow,
Take your Lang Goon to your Speun Feut, Sir.
Down wi't' doown to Gods coad Grunt Mon.
Lat ge your Lang Goon.   Upaw together.
To the Speun Haund aboot, Sir.
Gang your waw in the Deel's Naume t' ye.
Noow runawe in snarle ageen Bonee Lodds.

F  I  N  I  S.