A

Merry Dialogue, in the Tolbuith of
Edinburgh ; Betwixt Tonny Ashton.
And John Curry .

Tonny.                             

COME, my couragious Jack, my metl'd Scot 
Why may'nt  we kindle Kindness with a Pot,
Yow've run the Ghent-loup, and yow've try'd theTron,
Your Suffrings are expir'd, when mine comes on:              
Adamn'd  fowr looking Dog, is your Jack Catch,
And proudly Whips, with fury aud Dispatch ;
The Cobler wirh his Auld,   your Ear did  bore; 
But with ,his Lingle, did not mend the sore
And when he fix'd  yow firm,  how did he Jeer ?
Curry can bind a Book, and I can bind an Ear.
He ev'ry Day, puts Ears unto a Shoe,
And yet refuses, a New one to yow; 
Yet surely Jack, he was more fierce, than wise,
S ampiug Calf-leather's  part of the Excise,
A supervisor, should have marked yow,
And Claimd the duety, which the Law makes due; 
Your Leather's enterd, prithee drive a Trade,
For stock on hand, is finely tann'd and Taed.

Curry.

Bully, your words slow down, like Haisty showrs,
My Leather's entered ; but who enter'd yowrs  
Yow are a Leather Merchant very fine,
Your Crimes more crying ; Blacker  far than mine:
Many a Play I've bound, but may I rot,
If yours, hath not the most damnation Plot:
There is a Play, call'd Marriage a la  mode                 
But yow have basely, thro' that dramma trode
How will  yow Look, Pock-pudding, tell your mind,
For to be hiss'd, by all the Womenkind ;
Bully,  a Rape is death, and all men hope
The Rape will bring yow, to Dalgleishes Rope.
Or if yow save your Bacon, I must tell,
That sly Rob Forbes,                             
Are Actors for the Church; and  they, Play fine,
Yow'l  find, their scourging, sharper is than mine.   
An ounce or  two of Pomit, cures the Back;
But they can make yow, on the Creepie crack,
The whigs will smile, to see you in that Lurch:
Playhouse pull'd down and Tonny  in the Church.
'Twill be a Joyfull sight, to see yow there ;
The D---is Factor, in the House of Prayer,
Tonny, a mighty diffrence will Appear,
'Twixt a Scots Preacher; and the Spainish  Frier     
He'll spread your stinking Concience. cursed Life,
And make yow odious,  to your self, and Wife,
Till they who  pelted Eggs upon my bones,
Give yow a Handsom Compliment of Stones.

