Battle of Inkermann,

The Battle of Inkermann, fought and conquered by the
Allied Troops—British, French, Sardinians and Turks, on
the 5th November 1854, will ever stand, on the memory of
the present  generation; and on the page of history it will
go to the end of the world, as one of the greatest achieve-
ments  ever accomplished by gun, sword, and cannon. The
difficulties the  Allies had to encounter were great, and only
noble  hearts could accomplish them. Bravery on the Allies
side closed the day's proceedings, while many a. brave hero
lies now on the Crimea, having left heart broken mothers
and widowed wives to lament their loss—but having died
honourably for their country's rights, they look back with
melancholy and delight. Hear what the Poet now says In
his noble piece of Recitation, which the poet has no doubt
Will be recited by every school boy, and on every stage of
the globe till time shall be no more.'   It can only be had in
the Poet's Box, 6 St Andrew's Lane, Glasgow.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Sebastopol lay shrouded in thick November's gloom,
And through the midnight silence the guns  had ceas'd to boom;
The sentinel the outworn in watching for the morn
From Balaklava's heights, beheld the Russian lights
In the close beleagured fortress far a-down ;
And heard the sound of bells coming upwards through the
dells,
And the sound of mingling voices and anthems from the town.
They pray'd the God of Justice to thwart them in their wrong,
They consecrated murder with jubilee and song;
To the slain the joys of heaven, may their sins all be for
given,
When the promises divine had passed along their line,
As they gathered in their m riads ere the dawn;
While their priests in full ac ord chaunted glory to the Lord,
To bless the Russian banner and the sword for battle drawn.
Stealthly and dark lay amid the rain and sleet,
No trumpet's call resounding, drums beat, nor bugles blows
But shadow-like and slow came the legions of the foe,
Moving dimly up the steep where the British camps do sleep,
Lay unconscious of the danger lurking near ;
And the soldier breathing hard on the cold and trodden
sward.
Dreams of victory, wife and children dear.
Hark ! heard you not a rumbling in the misty moving air,
Like the rush of rising tempest when they shake the forest
bare?
The outpost on the hill hears it close and closer still,
Tis the tramp of iron heels, 'tis the crash of cannon wheels.
To arms! to arms ! is the cry, his the Russians on our flank,
Up and arm each British rank, and meet the gallant Guards-
men to conquer or to die!
Then rose the loud alarm with hurricane of sound,
From  short and easy slumber sprung each  hero to the
ground-
Sprung each horseman to his steed, ready saddled for his
need-
Sprung each soldier to his place with a stern determined face,
While the rousing drum and bugle echo far;
And the cruck of rifles wrung and the cannon found a tongue,
And down upon them  bursting came the avalanche of war.
As long as France and England shall combine their warlike
men,
Their deeds shall be remembered should the battle burst
again;
but to action so sublime will inspire each futher mind.
When war's alarms shall cease and the nations live in peace,
Free from tyranny, its murders, and its van ;
Let's  tell with honoured pride, how our soldiers fought and .
died.
And saved a threatened world on the heights of Inkerma nn.

Saturday Morning, August 8,1867.