BILLY PATTISON.

PRICE ONE PENNY

Copies of this very popular song can always to had, at
the Poet's Boy, O St 

Air-Original.                        

Oh, white folks, listen unto me,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
The subject of my story I'll tell unto thee,

Don't tell me, don't tell me,
The name of my story I'll tell unto thee,

Is oh, Billy P'at'tison,
The name of my song I'll tell unto thee,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, goodbye,

I think your horse will die,

If he don't  I'll ride again,

If he does I'll tan his skin,

I'll lay ten dollars down,

And leave it in my will,

show me the man in this yer town.

That struck my brother Bill.

I had a brother his name was Dick,

Oh. Billy Pattison,
Somebody hit him on the head with a brick,

Don't tell me, don't tell me,
Oh, what did he say when he came to ?

Oh, Billy Pattison.
I say, darkies, dis won't do,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, &c.

If ever you go to Fiddler's Green,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
A lame old nigger is there to be seen,                       

Don't tell me, don't tell me,                           ;

In his right hand be holds a will,

Oh, Billy Pattison,
And this is the man that struck old Bill,

Don't tell me, don't tell me.

Billy Pattison, &c.

JUST PUBLISHED, PRICE ONE PENNY,
THE POET'S GRAND CATALOGUE OF SONGS !

Containing 32 pages of closely printed matter.

THIS unique little publication has quite taken  the world by
storm, owing to its vast usefulness to the Lovers of Song
It also contains several rare poetical effusions, written spe-
cially for its pages by a gentleman of high standing in the
literary world. To parties in any part of the three king-
doms it will be transmitted free, per post, on receipt of Two
Postage Stamps. For this trifling sum, an idea of the POET'S
WONDERS  may be obtained at every fire side in these realms

LETTERS and PETITIONS written by the POET on the
shortest notice and most reasonable terms. All parties may
rely with confidence on the strictest secrecy being observed
This, to Lovers, is a great boon.

SONGS, PARODIES, &c., Written on any Subject
Terms-2s. 6d. and upwards.

Saturday Morning, January 10, 1863.