Glasgow Circuit.
                   
An account of the Trials and Sentences of all the different Prisoners
who have been tried before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which
met at Glasgow on Monday September 15, 1828.

GLASGOW, 15th SEPTEMBER, 1823.—This day the Circuit Court of Justiciary was
opened here by the Right Hon. Lords Meadowbank and Pitmilly, and after the usual solemin-
ties had been gone through, the Court proceeded to business.

A shorter mode of procedure is now adopted than what was formerly done. When the pri-
soner pleads Not Guilty, the indictment is not read over, but when they plead Guilty, the
indictment is read over to let the Judge hear it, and no Jury is appointed.

The following persons were outlawed for not appearing:—Alexander Latham, alia Fisher,
Alexander Latham, and John Nish, for an aggravated assault.

Robert Anderson, for breaking into the Counting house of Mr. Meikle, and stealing some
money therefrom, pled guilty; 12 months imprisonment.

George Arniel, for theft and habit and repute, was found guilty;  14 years transportation.

John Agnew, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation,
John Cubie, for housebreaking ana theft, pled guilty, 14 years transportation.
Alexander Ramsay, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Catherine Tochil. for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty, 14 years transportation.

James Park, for falsehood, fraud, forgery, and wilful imposition, pled guilty; l4 years trans-
portation.

Isaiah Moore, for housebreaking and theft, pled guilty, 7 years transportation.

John Murray, for housebreaking and theft, was found guilty;  14 years transportation.

Janet Black, from Paisley, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty; 7 years transports-
tion.

Peter Donnelly, for stealing some wearing apparel from a house in Oxford Street, was found
guilty; seven years transportation,

TUESDAY.—The Court met this day at 9 o'clock when the trial of Henry Saunders for
robbing the Greenock Bank was generally expected to come on, but we understand that it is
postponed for a future day.
Alexander M'Farlane, from Paisley, for sheep stealing, pled guilty; 7 years transportation

Francis Jones, for robbery, theft, and assault, pled guilty of the theft, and the other charges
aving been departed from, he was sentenced to six months in Bridewell.

William M'Kenzie, for assaulting and stabbing his wife in different parts of the body, was
found guilty; 14 years transportation.

Rosanna Winter, for stealing L 90 from a gentleman's packet in Prince's Street, Glasgow,
pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Thomas Young, Dugald Kelly, and MathewDougherty, for stealing several articles from a
house in Carswell's Court, were found guilty; Dougherty 12 months in Bridewell, and the
other two 7 years transportation.

James Young, for stealing a trunk off a carrier's cart, containing several articles of habar-
lashery, or for resetting them, pled guilty of the reset; 14 months in Bridewell.

William Thomson, for theft and habit and repute, pled guilty;  14months in Bridewell.

James Cunningham, Nathaniel Balfour, William Haddow Robert M'Phail, and Andrew Gil-
mour, jun, for assault with intent to rob. They were all outlawed except Cunningham, and
he pled guilty of the assault; 12 months in Bridewell.

Robert M'Intosh and John Thomson, for breaking into a byre in Tradeston, and stealing 10
bens and a bag, pled guilty; 14 years transportation. 

Margaret Armour, for stealing a number of articles from a house in Bluevale. Glasgow, pled
guilty; 7 years transportation.

WEDNESDAY—The Court met this day at 8 o'clock.

Hugh Richardson, Charles Hill, Thomas Conner, and Bell M'Menemy, a woman were then
sentenced at the bar, charged with cruellyassaulting a man of the name of  M'Kinnon, near the
Paisley Canal, and robbing him of some money.   The woman pled Guilty, and the three men
pled  Not Guilty.   After the examination of a number of witnesses Connar was found guilty,
and the woman and him were sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 22d
day of October next.   The other two were acquitted.                                                  

   John Muir, printer Glasgow.