Cookey Darling,  

A PARODY ON  KITTY  DARLING.

This is an excellent parody on the beautiful song called
Kitty Darling ; but what truth there is in the lines them-
selves we must leave our friends to judge for themselves, 
Punch, however, insinuates that "peelers" are very often
to be found lurking about area doors, and wherever that
is the case, there is generally some very mysterious
disappearunees of cold meat, &c., &c. from the larder, all
of which cookey is sure to lay on the back of poor pussey,
What enormous stomachs some cats must have ! But of
course we mustn't believe all Punch says.
To be had only at the Poet's Box, 6 St. Andrew's Lane,
Price One Penny.

Tune—Kitty Darling.
I'm waiting at the airey, cookey darling,
Your fire burns so brightly I can see;
Then hasten to your peeler, cookey darling,
For you know, my love, I'm waiting for thee.
You know last night you gave me
Only half a leg of mutton and a goose—
Then hasten to your peeler, cookey darling,
For on Sunday I shan't be of any use.
			Cookey, stunning cookey!
I'm waiting at the airey. cookey darling.
Your fire burns so brightly I can see;
Then hasten to your peeler, cookey darling,
For you know, my love, I'm wailing for thee.

I'm waiting at the airey, cookey darling.
Then bring me up something good to eat—
Some lush for my stomach to be warming,
And the grub I'll put away on my best.
I can see wine too on the table,
Sent down because it was not bright,
To drink it cookey, you know I'm able,
My love, you know, to put it out of sight.
			Cookey, stunning cookey!
			I'm waiting, &c.

I can see pies and puddings, cookey darling.
Veal ham, and every thing so nice ;
I shall go mad cookey darling,
If of that beel I havn't a two-pound slice.
But I hear the Serjeant coming—
Full well I know his power;
Then get the grub ready, cookey darling,
And I'll be back in half-an-hour.
			Cookey, stunning cookey!
			I'm waiting, &c.

The Poet's vast collection of Songs it unequslled
out of London. Come to the Box, and you will there
get ocular demonstration of his vast collection by
casting your eye along his innumerable shelves, all
packed with every description of comic and senti-
mental songs. And, what is still more, the Poet is
every week ad ding to his collection ; for. no sooner
is a new sang issued, than his Royal Yankee Press is
at once put in requisition to supply the lieges with
copies. Tue following are just published, and are
to be had at the Box, price One Penny each,---------
The Babes in the Wood...Matrimonial Miseries...
County Down...Dear Praties...Parody on the Low
Backed Car...Judy M'Carty ..Me and my Neddy ...
Sam Small.. .Nancy Till...Chime from the Mill.
The British Flag...I'm Afloat, I'm Afloat...To the
West...My Bonny Meg, my jo...The Ancher's
Weighed...Bonnie Jeanie Grey..Ye Cawe a'..The
Grate Setting, &c.. &c.
Saturday, April 15, 1854.