THE KING! GOD BLESS HIM.



A goblet of Burgundy, fill, fill, for me,
Give those who prefer it, champagne ;
But whatever the wine, it a bumper must be,
Though we ne'er drink a bumper again :
Now, when the cares of the day are thrown by,
And all man's best feelings possess him,
And the soul lights her beacon of truth in the eye,
Here's a health to the king !     God bless him.
God bless him, &c.

The wealthy of Rome, at their banquets of old,
When to those whom they honoured they quaff'd,
Threw pearls of great price in their goblets of gold
More costly to render their draught !
I boast not of gems, but my heart's in my glass,
Of its love naught can e'er dispossess him;
Upstanding, uncovered ! round, round let it pass,—
Here's a health to the king !  God bless him !
Hurrah! Hurrah!  Hurrah!
Upstanding, uncovered, round, round let it pass,
Here's a health to the  king !  God bless him,           



MERRILY PASS.

MERRILY pass the glass around,
We'll spend a night of glee ;
Let wit and mirth abound, abound,
For jolly good fellows are we.


Scots, Come o'er the
Border.

March!   march!    Ettrick  and   Teviotdale,
Why, the dei'l,  dinnar ye   march  forward  in
order ?
 March !  march ! Eskdale and  Liddesdale,
         All the blue bonnets are bound for the border.
                Many a banner, spread,
                Flutters above your head,
     Many a crest that   is   famous in story !
                Mount and make ready, then,
                Sons  of  the  mountain glen,—
     Fight for the queen, and our old Scottish glory.
                           March !  March! &c.

     Come   from  the hills    where   your  hirsels  are
                    grazing,
         Come from the glens of the buck and the roe;
      Come to the   crag where the beacon is blazing.
        Come with the buckler, the lance, and the bow
                Trumpets   are sounding.
                War steeds are bounding,
Stand to  your arms,   then,   and   march   in   good
               order.
England shall many a day
Tell of the bloody fray,
When the blue bonnets came over the border.
March!  March!  &c.


Tell me Love, where shall
we meet.


Say, shall we meet when the  sun is glowing,
Down by  the streamlet softly flowing,
So watch the rose-enchanting flower'    
Or will you meet me in the bower,
In palace, hall, or lone retreat?
Tell me love, where shall we meet?

Say, shall we meet 'neath the starry brightness,
When the heart throbs with gladsome lightness?
To kneel   before   some holy shrine,
Where my vows shall blend  with thine;
In palace, hall, or lone retreat,
Tell me, love, where shall we meet ?