The Daring Slack Wire,

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the Poet's Box,80 London Street, Glasgow.

Tune-Original.

Good evening, my friends, I'll have you to know
I went to a circus a short time ago ;
When in my box, gazing all about,
Some fellow by my side like a bear shouted out—
	Look where she goes,
	My own Sophia,
	Swinging, by Jove,
	On the daring slack wire.

Turn him out, turn him out, turn him out if you please,
When two tall policemen poor Jerry did seize ;
They hug him, they tug him, they pull him about,
But still from his box he continues to shout—
	Look where she goes,
	My own Sophia,
	Swinging, by Jove,
	On the daring slack wire.

Now, the shouting and bawling of poor Jeremiah
Caused Sophia to start as sue stood on the wire ;
Her little feet slipped, and as downward she fell,
These were the words that poor Jerry did yell—
	Look where she falls,
	My own Sophia,
	Falling, by Jove,
	From off the slack wire.

Sophia broke her fall, and as she was decending,
Showers of bouquets at her tent folks were sending ;
They kicked out Jeremiah, so he was defeated,
And this was the chorus the company repeated—
	Look where he goes,
	Poor Jeremiah,
	Kicked out, by Jove,
	Thro' the girl on the wire.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with on
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

CATALOGUE OF THE NEWEST SONGS.

The ruined cottage			I'll live as long as I can
Stump speech				Jemmy Riddle
Riding in a donkey car			Johnny, I hardly knew ye
Simple Simon				Land of green ginger
German band				My bonnie wee wifie and I
Married to a mermaid			Auld Robin the laird
Beloved eye				Merry old Uncle Joe
Slap bang				Nanny that leevea next door
The throe fishers			Rattling mare and I
It's wonderful how we do		Rothesay road
but we do				Row upon the stairs
Poor little Jim				Two in the morning
Bauldie, come hame			Wearing o' the green
Boys that carry the hod			Wee Joukeydaidles
Champagne Charlie			Young man dressed in red
As  round the ring she goes		Fire, fire, fire
Noisy swell				Jones' musical party
Worn-out tile				Kiss me, mother, ere I die
Nod your head				Star of Slaine

Saturday, April 4,1874.