SOLDIER'S   PARDON.

Recived with Great Success by D.   WILKIE  of  DUNDEE.

This  Popular Recitation can be  had at the Poet's   Box,  Ovegate  Dundee,

Wild blew the gale in Gibraltar one night,
As a soldier 1ay stretched in his cell;
And anon, 'mid the darkness, the moon's sliver     
light
On his cuntenance dreamily fell.                         

Naught could she reveal but a man true as steel,
That oft for his country had bled;                      
And the glance of his eye might the grim king defy, 
For despair, fear, and trembling Hed.                 
But in rage he had struck a well-merited blow       
At a tyrant who held him in scorn,
And his fate soon was sealed; for alas! honest
Joe
Was to die on the following morn.

Oh, sad was the thaught, to a man that had fougt
Mid the ranks of the gallant and brave,
To be shot through the brest at a coward's
behast,
And laid low in a criminal's grave.

The night call had sounded, when Joe was ar-
oused
By a step at the door of his cell:
T was a comrade with whom he had often ca-
roused
That now entered to bid him fairewell.

"Ah, Tom, is it you, come to bid me adieu?
Tis kind, my lad, give me your hand:
Nay, nay. don't get wild, man, and make me         
A child,
I'll be soon in a happier land."
With hands clasp'd in silence, Tom mournfully
said—
"Have you any raqust, Joe, te make?
Remember, by me 'twill be fully obyed,
Can I anything do for your sake?

"When it's over to-morrow," he said, fiilled with
sorrow,
"Send this token to her whom 1've sworn
All my fond love to share;" 'twas a lock of his     
hair,
And a prayer book all faded an worn,
"Here's this watch for my mother; when you
write home,"—
And he cashed a bright tear from his eye,—
"Say I died with my heart in old Devonshire Tom,
Like a man and a soldier—good bye."

Then the sargeant on guard at the grating appeared,
And poo Tom had to leave the cold cell,
By the moon's waning light, with a husky''Good;
night,
God he with you dear comrade—falrewell!"
Grey dawned the morn in a dull, cloudy sky,
When the blast of a bugle resouneded,
And Joe, ever fearless, went foward to die,
By the hearts of true heroes surrounded.
"Sholder arms!" was the cry as the prisoner pass'd
by,
"To the right about! march!" was the word;
And their pale faces proved how their comrade
was loved,
And by all his brave regiment adored.
Right onward they marched to the dread field of
doom,
Sternly silent they covered the ground:
Then they form into line, amidst sadness and gloom
While the prisoner looked calmly around.

Then soft on the air rose the accents of prayer,
And fant tolled the sclemn death bell,
As he knelt on the sands, and, with uplifted dand,
Waved the long and lasting farewell.
"make ready!" exclaimed an imperieus voice;
"Present!" struck a chill on each mind;
E'er the last word was spoken Joe had cause to
rejoice,
For "Hold? hold?" cried a voice from behind

Then wild was the joy of them all, man and boy,
As a horseman cried " Mercy?—forbear?."
With a thrilling 'Hurrah?--a free pardon---hur
rah?"
And the muskets rung loud in the air.
Soon the comrades were lock'd in each other's
embrace,
No more stood the brave soldiers dumb;
With a loud cheer they wheeled to the right-abo
ut face,
Then away at the sound of drum.
And a brighter day dawned in sweeet Dovon's
fair land,
Where the lovers met, never to part,
And he gave her a token, true, warm, and un-
broken—
The gift of own gallant heart.