JESSIE O' THE DELL.

0, the bright beaming queen o' night,
Shines in yon flow'ry vale,
And softly sheds her silver light,
O'er mountain, lake, and dale.
Short is the way when light's the heart,
That's bound in love's soft spell,
Sae I will away to Amadale,
To Jessie o' the Dell.

To Jessie o' the Dell,
Sweet Jessie o' the Dell,
The bonnie lass o' Armadale,
Sweet Jessie o' the Dell.

We've pu'd the primrose on the braes,
Beside my Jessie's cot,
We've gathered nuts, we've gathered sloes,
In that sweet rural spot,
The wee short hours danc'd merrily,
Like lambkins on the fell,
As if they join'd in joy wi' me.
And Jessie o' the Dell.
              And Jessie, &c.

There's nane to me wi' her can vie,
I'll love her till I dee,
For she's sae sweet and bonnie aye,
And kind as kind can be ;
This night in mutual kind embrace,
Oh ! who our joys may tell!
Then I'll awa to Armadale,
To Jessie o' the Dell.
             To Jessie, &c.


Begone Dull Care.

Begone dull care, I prithee begone from me,
Begone dull care, for you and I shall never agree,

Long time thou hast been tarrying here,
And fain thoa would'st me kill,

But I faith dull care,
Thou never shall have thy will,

Too much care will turn a young man grey,
Too much care will turn an old man to clay,

My wife shall dance and I will sing,
So merrily pass the day,

For I hold it one of the wisest things,
To drive dull care away.


IRISH MOLLY O.

Sec. 3.

As I went out a walking one morning in May,
I met a pretty Irish girl by chance upon the way,
I put my hand into my pocket it happened to be so,
And pulled out a guinea to treat my Molly O.

CHORUS

She is young and beautiful the fairest one I know,
She's the primrose of old Ireland, all for my guinea O,
And the only  one entices me is Irish Molly O,

I said my pretty fair maid if you will go with.me,
I'll show you the straight road across the country,
My parents would be angry if they should come to know
They would lay the blame upon my dear Scotch laddie O

When Molly's old father he came for to know,
That she had been courted by a scotch laddie O,
He sent for young M'Donald and to him did say,
If you court my daughter Mary I'll send you far away.

Since Molly has deceived me all by her father's way,
In lonesome woods and valleys I mean to spend my days
Like a poor forlorn pilgrim I'll wander to and fro.
And its all for the sake of my Irish Molly O.

There is a rose in Dublin I thought it would be mine,
If you come to my funeral its all I do require,
My corpse it shall be lifted by the dawning of the flay,
And all for the sake of my Irish Molly O.

Now that I am dying—one request I crave,                   •
To have a marble tombstone at the head of my grave.
In the middle of the stone the inscription should be so,
"Macdonald lost his life for the sake of Molly 0-"

So all you pretty fair maids a warning take by me,
And never build your hopes at the top of any tree,
For the green leaves will wither and the root will decay,
And the beauty of a fair maid will soon fade away.

70.