A TRUE SONG OF ERIN'S              

LAMENT FOR IRELAND.


Oh Erin ! give ear to your emigrant's ditty,
That mourns for old Granua each day ;
Over Europe we're scattered in each port and city,
While we're seeking employment each day.
We have trod Erin's carpet bespangled with flowers,
When the thrush, lark and linnet cheered us each hour ; 
Where Meola's sweet murmurs ring through thy bowers ,
But now from thy shades we are far away.

Oh, I sigh for those hearts I see so undeserving,
On their own native land left to stray,
In the midst of plenty some thousands are starving,
Neither house, food, nor clothing have they.
We are surrounded by poverty, and cannot find a friend,
Our lands they took from us, our joy's at an end,
So like a lot of pilgrims our onward course we bend,—
Oh, Old Ireland ! what have you come to ?

If you will give attention to what I shall mention,
Ireland's grievance I wish to make known,
Through bad legislation, with grief and vexation,
We are forced to wander from our home,
Our houses are taken from us,   our trade is gone away,
And we must emigrate, our landlowners do say,
While  the landlords live in luxury,  we starve both night
and day,
Oh, Old Ireland? what have you come to !

I sit now and ponder in amazement and wonder,
While the salt tears my eyes they do fill,
When I view the sweet cot that stands over yonder,
Close by you clear murmuring rill;
Many a happy hour I have spent in yonder wails,
Which alas ! now does moulder, and decaying falls,
Where the blackbird and thrush gave night and morning
calls,
Oh alas ! what have I come to ?

Oh kind Heaven, so propitious, to Erin's sons be gracious,
Who in sorrow are forced from their home,
To seek an asylum in some foreign clim
Alas ! now they are forced for to roam,
But when tyrannical desposts from Erin are huried,
The sweet flag of Liberty will then be unfurled.
And Erin's brave sons will rejoice o'er the world,
And to sorrow will then bid adieu.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY. Stationer, &c., 9,
King Street, Glasgow.    Upwards of 5,000 different songs
always on hand; also, a great variety of  Song-books, &c.
Shops and Travellers supplied on the most reasonable terms.

105