COUNTRY    

HIRINGS.

Come all you blooming country lads and listen unto me,
And if I do but tell the truth I know you will agree;

It's of the jolly farmers who servants wants to have,

For to maintain them in their pride and be to them a slave.
Servant men stand up for wages,
When to the hirings you do go,
For you must work all sorts of weather,

Both cold. wet and snow.

The farmer and his wife in bed so snug  and warm can lie
While you must face the weather, both cold, wet and dry ;
For the rents they are heavy and the taxes they are high.
And we must pull the wages down, the farmers do cry.


The farmers twenty years ago could their rents and taxes pay,

But now they are so full of pride and increases every day;

Which makes the landlord raise the rent, and the farmers for to

scolg,
On_the poor  young servant lad, and rob him of his gold.

The farmer aud the servants together used to dine, 
But now they are in the parlour, with their pudding, beef and
wine,                                                                      [alone

The masterand the mistress, their sons and daughters all
And they will eat the beef and you may pick the bone.

The   farmers' daughters they used to dress both neat, cleen
brown,                                                         [their gowns

And now with bustles, frills, and fur belows, and flounces to
They do get dress'd like dandy Bess, more fitter for the stage
Which causes the farmers rents to rise, and sets them in a rage

The discription of your living I am sure it is the worst;
Fot the porrage it is thin and the bread is very coarse,
While the maters they do live as you shall understand,
On butter and good cheese and the fat from the land.

A roasted goose for dinner likewise a leg of lamb,

 With, soups and potatoes and every thing that's grand '.
While the Servants in the kitchen they do both sport and play
Speaking about the fun they'll get upon the hiring day. 


I could tell yon of a better plan without fear or doubt,
Ify ou'll  but kiss the mistress when the master he is out,

You may kiss her, you may squeeze her, you may roll her

round about,
And  she will find you better food without fear or doupt.