Donald's

RETURN

TO

GLENCOE.

As I was walking one evening of late,

When f lora's green mantle the fields decorate,
I carelessly wandered, where I did not know,
On the banks of a fountain that lies in Glencoe.
Like her who the prize on Mount Ida had won,
There approached a lassie as bright as the sun ;
The ribands and tartans around her did flow,
That once graced M'Donald the pride of Glencoe.
With courage undaunted I to her drew nigh,
The red rose and lily on her chaek seemed to vie;
I asked her name ,and now far she did go ?
She awnsered me, kind sir, I m going to Glencoe.
I said, my dear lassie, your enchanting smile,
And comely sweet features have my heart beguiled
It your kind aflection on me you'll bestow,
You'll bless the happy hour we met in Glencoe.
Youngman, she made answer, your suit I disdain,
I once had a sweetheart, young Donald is his name,
He went to the wars about ten years ago,
And a maid I'll remain till he returns to Glencoe.
Perhaps your young Donald regards not your name,
But his placed his aflection on some foreign dame,
And may have forgotten, for ought that you know
The lovely young lassie he left in Glencoe.
My Donald's true valour when tried in the fisld,
Like his gallant ance-tors disdaming to yield,
The Spainiards and French he will soon overthrow,
And in splendour return to my arms in Glencoe.
The power of the French love, is hard to pull down,
They have caused many heroes to die   from    wound,
And with your own Donald it may happo,
She man you love dearly perhaps is laid to
My Donald can ne'er from his promise depart
For love, truth and honour are found in his heart;
And if I ne'er see him I single will go;
And mourn for my Dona d the pride of Glencoe.
Now finding her constant I pulled out a glove
Which, at parting she gave me as a token of love;
She hung on his breast while tears down did flow,
Saying, you are my Donald returned to Glencoe.
Cheer up! my dear Flora, your sorrows are o'er
While life does remain we will never part more;
The dreadful storms of war at a distance may blow
In peace  then and contentment I reside in Glencoe

SCOTLAND

YET.

Gae bring my guid auld harp ance mair,
Gae bring it free and fast,

For I mauu sing anither sang

          E'er a'my glee be past;

And trow ye, as I sing. my lads
The burden o't shall be—

 Auld Scotland's howes, and Scotland's knowes
And Scotland's hills for me;
I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,
          Wi' a' the honours three !

The heath waves wild upon her hills,
And foaming through ber fells,
Her fountains sing o' freedom still,

As they dash down the dells !
      And weel I lo'e the land, my lads,
          That's girded by the sea,

Then Scotland's vales, and Scotland's dales,

And Scotland's hills for me,
      I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,
Wi' a' the honours three !

      The thistle wags upon the fields

Where Wallace bore his blade,
That gave her foeman's dearest biu le,

To dye her auld grey plaid ;
And looking to the lift, my lads.

He sang this doughty glee—
      Auld Scotland's rights, and Scotland's mights

And Scotland's hills for me,
I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,
          Wi' a' the honours three,

They tell o' lands wi' brichter skies,
Where freedom's voice ne'er rang,
Gie me the land where Ossian dwelt,

And Coila's minstrelsang-

       For I've nae skill o' lands, my lads
That kenna to be free—

Then Scotland's vales, and Scotland's dales
          And Scotland's hills lor me,

I'll drink a cup to Scotland yet,
          Wi' a' the honours three.



Sold by JAMES LLNDSAY, Printer and
 Wholesale Stationer, 11 King Street, (City),
 Glasgow. Upwards of 5000 sorts always on

hand; also a great variety of Picture Books,
 Song Books, Histories, & c. Shops and
 Hawkers supplied on Liberal Terms.

 Soiree and Bal Cards, Large Posting and
 Hand Bills, Invoice Tops, Circulars, Business
 and Fancy Cards, Society Articles, Pamphlets
 and every description of Letterpress Printing

done cheaply, neatly, and expeditiously

100