The Sons of the

Thistle & Shamrock

so Green.

Ye sons of old Seotland and Ireland too,
Draw near and I'll sing you a song that is true,
Concerning your sons for I know they are brave,
And foremost the crownhead of Britain to save.
They've foughtland they've conquer'd in the days of yore,
The standard of Britain triumphant they bore;
Where danger was greatest they were to be seen,
The sons of the thistle and shamrock so green.

CHORUS.

Old England is proud, but what would it have been,
Were it not for the thistle and shamrock so green.

Oh, think on the time when Napoleon the great,
Made the despots of Europe to tremble and shake !
The crown-head of Britain was safe an-d serene,
Protected by the thistle and shomrock so green.
Through Flanders and Spain, and Portugal too,
And lastly of all, at famed Waterloo.
Victory that day on the balance had been,
Till finished by the thistle and shamrock so green.

In the Crimea also we did play our part,
When both France and Britain went hand and heart
The tyrant to check and Turks for to save ;
Then who like the your sons in that place was brave.
On the heights of the Alma where cannons did roar,
And many a brave hero lay dead in their gore.
When the duke said retreat Colin cried a no such thing
We're the sons of the thistle and shamrock so green.

Our sons are away to the Indie's again
The rebels to fight on Hindoostanee plain ;
At Cawnpore and Lucknow there they have been,
The bold sons of the thistle and shamrock so green,
Britons will be triumphant and that you will see,
And revenge we will have for their cruelty :
Our brothers and sisters they tortured full sore,
At Delhi and Lucknow, Meerut and Cawnpore.

Success to our soldiers wherever they be,
For they are the lads that still keeps us free ;
The bravest on earth that ever has been,
Are the sons of the thistle and shamrock so green.
I hope the time is not far distant when home they will be,
Their fathers and mothers and sweethearts to see ;   
Then for a day of rejoicing the like was ne'er seen,
In the land of the thistle and shamrock so green. 