THE

CONOUGHTMAN'S

DESCRIPTION OF GLASGOW.

I travelled the whole way from Dounoaghadee,
The flourishing city of Glasgow to see ;
When I came there the first n eat I saw,
Was boil d roasted herring at the Broomialaw.

The next place I came to was call'd the Arcade,
It was slated with glass. I asked for what it wa
A wife deaf & dumb, she made this reply,    (made
It's to keep out the rain when the weather is dry

The next place I came to was call'd the Exchange,
There was rows of fine buildings all in a range ;
The large Square clock was lighted with gas,
To lot the blind folk see the hours as they pass.

The next place I came to was call'd George square,
A man on a high pillar, he was standing there,
Two man for to guard him inside they did keep,
He stood winking at me and him fast asleep.

The next place I came to was called the Cross,
There I seen a black man ride on a blind horse ;
His black-thorn he was pointing straight.
Directing the lassics to the Barrack 's gate.               

It's off to the Green I instantly went,
Where I got a view of the great Monument,
I asked for Lord Nelson at a wife that was there !
She told me he was gone to see Rutherglen fair

In Bridgeton I seen Cotton Mills go by steam,
And Looms standing idle a weaving on keen,
There was idle men sweeping the streets,
Least the bonny lassies would dirty their feet

It was there I saw empty carts stuff d full of bread
To feed all the quite folk after they're dead ;
The bonny young lassies they go neat and clean,
Thousands of tee totlars in this town I have seen.

They keep the dogs muzzled three months in the
year,
Least they should get tipsy with whiskey and beer.
And every day upon the river Clyde,
You will see boats run by steam against wind & tide

King Solomon says but it cannot be true,
Under the sun there is nothing that's new,
Neither he, nor his father, nor yet his grandson,
Ever saw a steam coach through Jeruselem run,

At a shop fall of pictures I stopped  for to stare,
There I lost my money that made me look queer,
My waistcoat and shirt I sold for half-a-crown,
And I bade farewell to that beautiful town.