JOHN   ARMSTRONGS LAST   FAREWEL.

Declaring how he and his Eight-scoremen fought
bloody Battell at Edinburgh.         

To the Tune of, fare thou well  bonny Gilt knock Hall.            

IS their never a Man in all Scotland,
from the nighest state to the lowest degree,
That can shew himself before the King,
the World's so full of  treacherie ?
Yea ther's a Man in  VVestmerland,
and John Armstrong they do him call,
He hath  no Lands  not Rent coming in,
yet be keeps  eight score men  in  his Hall.



He hath Horse and harness  for them all,
and goodly  Steeds  that be  milk white;
With their goodly Bells  about their Necks,
with  Hats  and Feathers all alike.
The King he wrote a lovely Letter
with his own hand right tenderly,
And sent it to John Armstrong,
to come and speak with him speedily.

When John be looked the Letter upon,
then he was as blyth as a Bird on a Tree,
I was never before  a  King in my, Life,
my father, my Grand father not none of us
But  seeing  we  must  go before the King, (three
O !we will go most valiantly,
Ye shall every one  have a Velvet Cap,
laid on with Golden Laces three.

And you shal every one  have a  Scarlet Cloak,
laid on with. Silver Laces five,
With your Golden Belts about your Necks,
with Hats, brave  Feathers all alike:
But  when John he went from Knock - Hal,
the Wind it blue hard, and sote  it did  rain :
Now fare thee well brave Gilt Knock-Hal,
I fear I shal never  see thee again,

Now John  he is to Edinburgh gone,
and  his eight score man so gallantly :
And every one of them on a milk white Steed
with their bucklers and swords banging down  to
But when John  came  the  King before ( the Kne[ ],
With his eight score men so gallant to see,
The King he moved  his-Bonnet to him,
he thought he had been a King as well as He.

O Pardon, Pardon, my Soveraign  Liege,
pardon for my  eight  score of Men and Me;
For my Name is John Armstrong,
and a Subject of  yours, my Liege, said he
Away with thee, thou  false Traitor,
no parden I will grant to thee in
But to morrow before eight of  be Clock,
I will hang thy eight score man and thee

O how John, looked over his left Shoulder,
and to his merry man thus said ;
I  have asked Grace at a graceless  face,
no pardon there is for you and me,
Then John pul'd out a Nute-brown Sword;
and it was made of the mettal so free ;
Had not the King moved his foot as he did
John had taken his head from his fair  Body.

Come follow me my merry men all,
we will Icorn one foot for to flee; 
It shall never be said we hung like Dogs,
no, we'l fight it out couragiously
Then they fought on like Champions bold,
for their  hearts wet  sturdy stout and free
Till they  had killed all the Kings good  Guard,
there was none left alive but only three,

But then arose up all Edinburgh,
they rose up by thousands three ;
And a Cowardly Man came John behind,
and run him thorrow  the fair Bodies;
Said John , fight on my merry Men all,
I am a little hurt, but am not slain;
I  will lay me down for to bleed a while,
then I'l  rise and fight with  you again,

Then they fought on like mad men all,
 till many a man lay dead on the plain
For they were resolved  before they would yeeld
that every man should there be slain,
so there they fought couragiously,
till most of them lay dead  there and slain,
But little Musgrove that was his Foot Page,
with,his bonny Grossel got away unran..

But when be came up to Gilt-knock-hal,
the Lady spyed him presently;
What new, what news, thou  little Foot Page,
 what news from  thy Master And his companie
My news is bade, Lady, he said,
which I do bring,  as you may see;
My Master John Armstrong  is slain,
and all his gallant company.

Yet thou are  welcome home my bonny Grissel,
full oft hast  thou fed at the Corn and Hay ;
But now thou shalt be feed with Bread and wine
and thy sids shall be sputted  no more I say
O then bespoke his little son,                         
as be did sit on the Nurses knee,
If ever I live for  to be a Man,
my Father Death revenged  shall be

F I N I S.