THE COMIC DIVAN.

            TUNE — Let the Toast Pass.

Mitchelson, Printer. there doors from the Sessions
House Clerkenwell Green.

Gentlemen Visitors, how do you do?
Pop into my comic museum,
Of things rare and curious, I've got not a few
Come in and you quickly shall see 'em.

CHORUS.                                          

Call when you can here is the plan
Of the wonderful thing in my comic divan.

Did you e're see the Lord Mayor sup on I mutton chop,        
Did you e'er see a bull row a boat Sirs,
Did you e'er see a Minister spinning a top,
Or Lord Brougham a turning his coat Sirs.

Did you e'er see a black with a face white as snow            
Or a Dowager thrashing her daughter,
Did you e'er see O'Connell when jumping Jim Crow            
Or Father Mathew get drunk on pump water ?                      

Did you e'er see a voter refusing to cheer?
Did you e'er see a man and wife wrangle?
Did you e'er see an Alderman drinking small beer
Or Silk Buckingham turning a mangle?

Did you e'er see a sleepy man given to gape?                   
Or a barber make wigs out of matches?
Did you e'er see a lawyer sans parchment & tape,            
Or a husbands face cover'd with scratches ?                      

Did you e'er see a tailor cut out for a pope,                        
Or a sweep taking tea with a Duchess?
Did you e'er see top boots made of hard Windsor soap          
Or an oyster that went upon crutches !                              

Did you e'er see St. Paul's in a new pair of shoes ?              
Or a married man given to roam Sirs,                                
Did you e'er see a donkey when reading the news,
Or Lord Melbourne dining at home Sirs ?                         
	
Did you e'er see a cripple, a bowling a hoop,                     
Or a horse supping punch with a ladle,                              
Did you see Her Majesiy making peas soup,                      
While Prince Albert was rocking the cradle.                      

Did you e'er see Wellington roasting a duck,                    
Or blind people leading the blind, Sirs ?                           
Did you e'er see a jew who was drawing a truck,              
And a quaker a pushing behind?                                        



LORD ULLIN'S

Daughter.


A chiefiain to the Highlands hound,
Cried boatman do not tarry,
And I'll give thee a silver pound
To row us o'er the ferry,
Now who be ye would cross Lochgyle
This dark and stormy water,     
O I'm the Chief of Ulva's Isle
And this Lord Ullen's daughter.

And fast before her father's men
Three days we've fled together
For if he find us in the glen,
My blood will stain the heather,
His horsemen hard behind us ride,
Should they our steps discover,
Then who would cheer my bonny bride,
When they have slain her lover.

Out spoke the hardy Highland wight,
I'll go my chief, I'm ready,
It is not for your silver bright,
But for your winsome lady,
And by my word, the bonny  bird
In danger shall not tarry,
Lo. though the waves are raging white,
I'll row you o'er the ferry.

By this the storm grew loud a pace,
The water wraith was shrieking,
And in the scoul of heaven, eech face
Grew dark as they were speaking.
But still as wilder blew the wind,
And as she night grew drearer,
A down the glen rode armed men,
Their trampling sounded nearer.

Oh haste thee ! haste ! the Lady cries.
Tho' tempests round us gather,
I'll meet the raging of the skies
But not an angry father.
The boat has left a stormy land,
A stormy sea before her,
When oh, too strong for human hand,
The tempest gather'd o'er her.

And still they row'd amidst the roar
Of waters fast  prevailing,
Lord Ullin reach d that  frtal shore,
His wrath was changed to wailing :
For sore dismay'd thro' storm and shade,
His child he did discover,
One lovely hand she streiched for aid,
And one was round her lover.

Come back ! come back ! he cried in grief
Across this raging water.
And I'll forgive your Highland Chief,
" My daughter!—oh my daughter !"
'Twas vain : the loud waves lashed the shore,
Return or aid preventing :—
The waters wild went o'er his child—
And he was left lamenting.

Sold also by A. Guichard, (from I. Pitt's Toy and
Marble Warehouse.) 6, Little While Lion Street,
2 doors from the Seven Dials.