'TIS BUT

A Little Faded Flower.

PRICE ONE PENNY.
Copies can always be had at 80 London St., Glasgow.

Air.—Original.

'Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh ! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.
I may not to the world impart
The secret, the secret of its power,
But treasur'd in my inmost heart
I keep my faded flow'r,
I keep my faded flow'r.
Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.

Where is the heart that doth not keep,
Within its inmost core,
Some fond remembrance hidden deep
Of days, of days that are no more ?
Who hath not saved some trifling thing,
More priz'd than jewels rare ?
A faded flow'r, a broken ring,
A tress of golden hair,
A tress of golden hair.
'Tis but a little faded flow'r,
But oh! how fondly dear,
'Twill bring me back one golden hour,
Through many, through many a weary year.

 PRINTING.
W. M. LEITCH takes this opportunity of informing his
numerous Patrons and the Public, that his Prices are
lower than those of any Printing Office in Glasgow, and
that every variety of Job Printing is executed with Neat-
ness and Despatch. Cheapness, Correctness, Neatness and
Punctuality are leading features in the accomplishing
of all orders with which he may be favoured. Business
Cards, Circulars and Handbills; Invoice Tops, Letter
Headings and Memoranda; Concert, Soiree and Assembly
Bills, Cards, and Programmes; Excursion, Fete and Al
Fresco Cards; Cards of Rules for Cricket, Football, and
Quadrille Clubs; Society Rules, Abstracts, and Contribu-
tion Cards; Luggage Labels, Parcel and Receipt Books;
Bottle Wrappers and Labels; Testimonials, Law Docu-
ments, Pamphlets, and Syllabuses; Reference Cards,
Visiting Cards, and Marriage Invitations; Race Meeting
Work; Auctioneers' Bills and Catalogues; Posters, all
sizes and all colours of ink; Numbered Tickets; and,
indeed, every species of Job Printing is done with the
utmost despatch. Parties without manuscript will re-
ceive every assistance in drawing out the form of their
orders. Orders by letter, from the country, receive im-
mediate attention, and are sent off by Rail, Steamer,
'Bus, or Post, as may be most convenient.

Saturday, January 29, 1887.                  P.D.—15-12-76. 



