                    THE ROYAL ROBE

Come all ye knight templars that's blest round the
globe,
That wear the badge of honour, I mean the royal
robe;
For Noah he wore it in the ark where he stood,
When the world was destroyed by a deluge flood.

Noah he was righteous in the sight of the Lord,
He loved a Freemason that knew the secret word;
He tilled the earth, and he planted the first vine,
His glories in heaven like angels he does shine.

Once I was blind, and I could not see the light,
It was straight to Jerusalem I then took my flight,
They led me through a wilderness with a multitude
of care,
You may know me by the system of the badge
that I wear.

O when I think on Moses I cannot but blush,
And likewise on Mount Horeb and on the burning
bush;
My shoes I will throw off, my staff I will cast away,
Like a pilgrim I will wander until my dying day.

Twelve dazzling lights I saw that put me in surprise
And looking all around me I heard a dreadful
noise;       
A serpent passed by me, I fell upon the ground,
Then with peace, joy, and comfort, the grand secret
I found.

The secret was lost and afterwards was found
So was our blessed Saviour, it is very well known,
In the garden of Gethsemane he sweat a bloody
sweat,
So repent my loving brethren, before it is too late.

Against Turks, Jews, and Infidels, we always do
fight,
To let the wond' ring world know we're always in
the right;
Search the Scriptures over, it is there to be found
That the tree that bears no fruit, ought to be cut
down.

To raise the ark up higher we will join our hands,
The Almighty ordered Moses to pour water on dry
land;
Out of a clear fountain from Eden it did spring
Where Eve  tempted Adam, who a serpent did
sting.

I will never stand by to hear the orphan cry,
No, nor the widow, until the day I die;
In heaven is our  Grand Lodge,  and St. Peter
keeps the door,
And no one can enter it but those that are pure.

JAMES KAY, GLASGOW.                                                   

PRICE    ONE    PENNY.          29