Glasgow Curcuit.

GLASGOW, APRIL 15, 1828.—This day the Circuit Court of Judiciary was opened
here by the Right Hon. the Lord Justice Clerk and Lord Alloway, and after the usual so-
lemnities had been gone through, the Court proceeded to business.

The following persons were outlawed for not appearing :—Peter Malone, culpable homicide,
—Alexander New lands, similar offence—James Miller, forgery—Neil Arnot, murder—Daniel 
Kennedy, theft- and James Laird, assault with intent to ravish.                   

George Dougherty, for stealing a number of calicoes and muslins from a cart at the Broo-
mielaw, was found guilty, and sentencen to 14 years transportation.

William Sutherland, for falsehood, fraud, and wilful imposition,, was found guilty, and
tenced to 7 years  transportation.                           

Christian M'Donald, tor stealing a silver watch from a house in Calton, and some wearing
apparel from a house in Bridgeton, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Hugh Turner, one of them who broke out of Jail on Sunday last, for stealing a cheese from
a shop in Hutcheson Street, pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

James Whiteside, for stealing a quantity of  wearirig apparel, silver plate, &c., from a house
in Clyde Buildings, pled guilty;  14 years transportation.

Margaret Harley and Jean M'Farlane, for picking a woman pocket in Trongate;  Harley
pled guilty, and M'Farlane was found guilty; 14 years transportation.
William Johnston, for stealing a number of articles from a warehouse in Brunswick Street,
pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

John Rankine, from Greenock, for theft by housebreakiag, and habit and repute, pled
guilty; 14 years transportation.                                                                                        

Sarah Kean or Brown, for steeling a number of articles  from a house in Bridgeton, pled
guilty; six months confinement in Bridewell.                     

Ann Dunlop or Blue, from Paisley, for striping two young children of their clothes, was found
guilty; transportation for life.

Cornelius Vanderburgh, for breaking the whole glass at one of the bot-houses and green-
houses at Woodhall, pled  guilty: 12 months imprisonment in Bridwell.                             

Andrew M'Beath and Alex. Ainslie, for theft by housebreaking, and habit and repute, pled
guilty; 14 years transportation.

Elizabeth M'Lain, for theft, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

SECOND DAY.— Robert Nicholson, for breaking into a house in Great Dowhill Street, and
into the Relief Church in same street, pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

Elizabeth Connelly or M'Credie, for stealing a number of articles from a house in Gorbals.
was found guilty; 14 years transportation.

John Miller and John M'Millan, from Dumbarton, for uttering forged notes, and base
counterfeit coin, pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

James Devlin, labourer, and Alex. Leith, charged with issuing forged notes of the Commer-
cial and Sir W. Forbes's banks, in the shop of Mr M'Innes, grocer, Calton, pled not guilty.
Aftes a number of witnesses had been examined, the Jury retired for about an hour and re-
turned with a verdict of Guilty against both prisoners, but recommended Devlin to mercy.
The libel was restricted as to Leith. Sentence delayed.

James Haggart or Haggarty, from Paisley, for uttering forged notes of the Glasgow Bank,
in Eaglesham and East Kilbride, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

Mary M'Williams, for uttering forget notes of the Glasgow and Sir Wm. Forbes & Compa-
ny's Banks, in Glasgow, was found guilty; 14 years transportation.

Kirsty More or Gracie, for uttering forged notes, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

THIRD DAY.—John Menzies, tar striking; Robert Ure, Anderston Walk, with a poker on
the head, to the great effusion of his blood, pled guilty; 9 months imprisonment in Bridewell.

John Kelly and Sam. Barr, two of  those who broke out of Jail, for stealing several articles
off a bleaching green, pled guilty; 7 years transportation.

James Devlin, who was yesterday convicted of uttering forged notes, was this day brought
up on another charge of the same kind, and pled guilty. Sentence deferred.

John Miller, for culpable homicide, by carelessly driving his cart over a child in Duke Street
by which it died, pled guilty; one months imprisonment.

Patrick Hendrie, for uttering forged notes, pled guilty; 14 years transportation.

Dorothy M'Williams, for uttering forged notes, was found guilty; 7 years transportation.

Alex. Grant, Robert Lauder, and Archd Finlay, for picking a gentleman's pocket at the
head of Jamaica Street, were found guilty; Grant transported for life; the other two 14 years.
John Buchanan Buchan, for theft by housebreaking, was found guilty 14 years transportation.
                                                                    (Turn over.)