The Wonderful

Grey Horse.

My horse he is white, although at first he was bay,
He took great delight in travelling by night and by day;
His travels were great, if I could the half of them tell,
He was rode in the garden by Adam the day that he fell.

When banished from Eden, my horse was losing his way,
From all his fatigues, no wonder that now he is gray;
At the time of the flood he was rode by mony a spark,
And his courage was good when Noah took him into the ark.

On Babylon plains he ran with speed for the plate-
He was hunted next day, it is said, by Nimrod the great;
After that he was hunted again in the chase of a fox,  
When Nebuchadnezzar eat grass in the shape of an ox.

He conducted him home straightway into Babylon Town'
Where the king was restored once more and solemnly crown'd
He was with King Saul, and all his troubles went through,
And was with King David the day that Goliah he slew.

When he saw King David hunted about by King Saul,
My horse took his leave and bid farewell to them all,
He was with King Pharoah in Egypt when fortune did smile
He rode him very stately along the banks of the Nile.

He followed Moses who rode him through the Red Sea,
He then led him out, and he sensibly galloped away ;
He was with King Cyrus, whose name is in history found
And he  rode on my horse at the taking of Babylon Town'

When the Jews remained in chains and mercy implored,
King Cyrus proclaimed again to have them restored ;
He was in Judea when Judas Maccebus the great,
Had rode on my horse, as ancient historians relate.

The poor captive Jews received these news with great joy,
My horse got new shoes and pursued his journey to Troy.
When the news reached Troy, with my horse he was found,
He crossed over the wall, and entered the city I'm told.

The city being in flames, by means of Hector's sad fate,
My horse took his leave, and there no longer would wait;
I saw him again in Spain, and he in full bloom,
With Hannibal the great, and he crossing the Alps into Rome

My horse being tall, and the top of the Alps very high,
His rider did fall, and Hannibal the great lost an eye;
My horse got no ease although his rider did fall,
He was mounted again by young Scipio who did him extol

On African's Plains he conquered that part of the globe.
My horse's fatigues would try the patience of Job ;
He was with Brian the Brave when the Munster men he
did command,
Who in thirty-six battles drove the vile Danes from our land

At the battle of  Clontars  he fought on Good Friday all day,
And all that remained my horse drove them into-the sea;
He was with King James when he reached the Irish shore.
But, alas! he got lame, when Boyne's bloody battle was o'er-
To tell the truth, for the truth I always like to tell.
He was rode by St Ruth the day that in  Aughrim he fell ,
And Sarsfield the brave, at the siege of Limerick town,
Rode  on my horse and crossed o'er the Shannon  I'm told.
He was rode by  the greatest of men at the famed Waterloo,
And Daniel O'Connell long sat on his back it is true,
To shake off  the yoke  which Erin long  patiently bore-
My horse being /ill / he means to travel no more.

He is landed in Erin, in Kerry he now does remain,
The smith is at work to fit him with new shoes  again;    
Place Lan on his back  he is ready once more far the  field.
And he never will stop till the Tories, he'll make them to yield.