THE WIFE'S DREAM.  

Now tell me, Mary, how is it that you can look so gay,        
When evening after evening your husband is away ?            
I'never see you sulk or pout. or say an angry word,             
And yet you've plenty of cause for tears if all be true I've
heard.                                                                  

It is because, my sister dear, a husband you ne'er wed,        
Nor saw your  children gathering round and asking you for 
bread;                                                                 
You ne'er can know how it becomes a woman's lot through  
life,
To be, even to a drunkard's faults, a patient loving wife.     

And yet I can recall the time when bitter tears I shed,
And when my husband stagger'd home, what angry words
I said,
I never thought that I could be as cheerful now I seem
Yet this happy change was brought about by a simple little
dream.

One evening as I sat beside our humble cottage door,
And listened for my husband s step. as oft I d done before,
Some wretched thoughts came in my mind. & bitterly I said,
I never wish to see him more, oh, would that he were dead.

They say the wretched cannot sleep, yet surely it is not so,
For very soon I fell asleep, 'mid tears of grief and woe.
I dream'd I had my wish fulfilled, my husband was no more,
I fell upon his lifeless form, and kiss'd him o'er and o'er.

Oh, Dermont, darling, speak to me. I meant not what I said
Oh speak one word unto your wife, say. say you are not dead,
And sure I am not my Mary dear, I woke up with a scream,
And found my husband standing by, his death was but a
dream.

And since that time, when'er I feel disposed to he unkind,
The warning of that fearful dream comes fresh before my
mind,
And tho' it costs me many a pang to know the life he leads,
I try to greet him with a smile, when oft my poor heart bleeds'

I'll humbly put my trust in God, & ask for strength to bear
The trials that he sends on earth for all of us to share;
And it by patience I can change my husband's wandering
life,                                                                 
I'll bless the hour that dream was sent to his neglected wife.

Printed and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Stationer, &c., 9 King Street,
(off Trongate.) Glasgow. Upwards of 5,000 different sorts always on
land. Also, a great Variety of Song-books, Picture-books, &c. Shops
and Travellers supplied on very moderate Terms.