Trial & Sentence

Of all the prisoners who have appeared before the Court of Justi-
ciary since its opening on Thursday the 18th of April, 1822.

Glasgow, 18th April, 1822.—This day, the Court of Justiciary was opened by the Right
Hon. the Lords Pitmilly and Succoth. After a suitable prayer by the Rev. Dr Taylor of
St. Enoch's, the jury were called over, when ten were absent from sickness. After which,
the Court proceeded to the trial of                                                            

MATHEW  WILSON, charged with stealing upon the 29th Dec. 9 silk handkerchiefs. and
15 yards of Queen's Cloth, from Francis Gemmill, Paisley. and being habit and repute a
thief, pled Guilty; after an appropriate address from Lord Pitmilly, he was sentenced to
14 years' transportation.

JAMES FLEMING, charged with stealing two cows from John Waddell, New Monkland,
upon 13th September last, pled Guilty. Lord Succoth, after a solemn address, sentenced
him to transportation for life.

AGNES EASTON indicted for concealment of pregnancy at Lesmahagow, pleaded Guilty,
and was sentenced to 4 months' imprisonment.

THOMAS STODDART was next put to the bar, for entering a stable at Corbiehall, parish of
Carstairs, on 28th Dec. last, and stealing two one pound notes, 17s. in silver, and various
articles of clothing. He pled Guilty, and was sentenced to be transported for 7 years.

ALEXANDER FRAME, for stealing 12 pair of gloves from Mr Proudfool, giover, Glasgow,
on the 16th Feb. last, pled Guilty, and was sentenced to 14 years' trausportation.

DANIEL RANKINE, accused of entering the house of Janet Wilkie, Portugal Street, Gor-
bals. and stealing several notes, 2 crown pieces, 9s. in silver, 7 silver tea spoons, a gold
chain, a gold ring, and a number of papers, on the 2d Oct. last, pled Guilty, but was re-
commended to mercy for his youth, being only 15 years old.—Sentence delayed.

JOHN PACE and JOHN M'PHERSON for discharging a loaded fowling piece at James Orr,
collier, Kilburnie, on the 16th Feb. last, by which he was so severely wounded that he died
on the 13th of said month, pled Not Guilty. After a long trial, the libel was found Not
Proven, and after a suitable address, were dismissed from the bar.

JOHN ANDREW, charged with bigamy, in the month of August, 1818, he having two wives
both alive, pled Not Guilty.—Sentence delayed.

THOMAS COOK, accused of murder, by beating a man with a baker's rolling pin, in con-
sequence of which he died ; after the examination of witnesses, the jury brought in a ver-
dict of culpable homicide, and he was sentenced to 6 months' imprisonment.

JOHN RANKINE, charged with entering the house of Isobel Dick, Rottenrow Street, on
the 15th Jan. last, by means of false keys, and stealing a quantity of wearing apparel, pled
Guilty to the reset only, and was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment. He is a brother
of Rankine mentioned above.

ROBERT CAMPBELL, for breaking the house of John Nielson, spirit-dealer, Camlachie, on
the 25th November, and stcaling a number of books, and of being habit and repute a thief
pled Not Guilty. He was found Guilty, and was sentenced to transportation for life.

HELEN GORIE and JAMES MUSHAT, charged with stealing wearing apparel from Margaret
Ritchie, Grahamston, Glasgow, on the 23d Feb. pled Not Guilty, and was dismissed from
the bar. Helen Gorie, pled Guilty, but being unwell, was removed from the bar.

HENDEY ANDREW LINDSAY for assaulting Robert Forsyth in the High Street, on the 7th
April, 1821, and robbing him of his watch and 13s. was outlawed for not appearing.

ROBERT TENNANT, alias Lawrence Tennact alias Robert Lawrence Tennant, charged with faisehood, fraud
and forgery, pled Guilty, and was sentenced to be transported for 7 years.

DONALD DAVIDSON, charged with faisehood, fraud and wilful imposition was put to the bar, but the trial
was put off on account of the absence of some of the witnesses,

HELEN RENNIE, accesed of having, on the 30th December, administered a quantity of arsenic to her natural
child, a boy between 9 and Io months old, by which he died in a few hours. After a long trial, the jury gave in a
verdict of Not Guilty, and after a suitable advice, she was dismissed from the bar.

The Court then proceeded to the trial of WILLIAM CAMPBELL, JAMES KEKR, and WILLM. WELSH,
for breaking the shop of Wm. Whyte, dyer, Glasgow. on the 3d Jan. last, and being habit and repute thieves, and
CATHRINE MILLER or YOUNG, HELEN YOUNG or MAXWELL, and MARY ANDERSON, for reset-
ting said goods, pled Not Guilty. Campbell was found Guilty, and sentenced to be Executed on Wednesday the
29th of May next. The libel against Kerr and Welsh was found Not Proven, and they were dismissed.The two
women  were found Guilty of the reset; the one was sentenced to 18, and the other to 6 manths' imprisonment.

							W. CARSE, PRINTER, GLASGOW.