My Big Wig all so
Mealy and White.

A NEW SONG.

Sung, without much applause, on several late occasions,
by his, Majesty's Attorney-General.

TUNE—The Black Joke.

PLAIN JOHN is my name, though they've made me Sir John,
A straight-forward man, when I have not got on
My big wig all so mealy and white.
I lately have heard of your city's distress,
And feeling my own, I could scarcely do less
Than lay down my briefs, and thus haste to your aid
Well knowing your love for our plain spoken trade,
With our big wigs all so mealy and white.

 I'm a STRANGER among you, 'tis all very true,
Yet, if you'll consider, what else could I do
For my big wig all so mealy and white ?
I was kicked out of DUDLEY some few weeks ago,
And, ere I had time to recover the blow,
I was civilly told by those masters of mine,
" You must find a new seat or your office resign,
With your big wig all so mealy and white!"

Where was I to go then an opening to seek ?
Whom could I apply to except to THE CLIQUE,
With their small wigs all so mealy and white?
They always are ready to help out a friend,
And, if he's a PLACEMAN, their zeal has no end;
They always (God bless them) have members to make,
And whatever they do, it is all for your sake,
With their small wigs all so mealy and white !

I have too little leisure already, by far,
For you know, my good friends, I'm the head of our bar,
With my big wig all so mealy and white :
Yet its common enough in the Courts where I plead
To take up a CASE that one never can read ;
This perhaps may be called by an awkwardish name,
Yet its perfectly common, and all quite the same
To our big wigs all so mealy and white !

I'm all in the dark as to all your affairs,
For in fact you have taken me quite unawares,
In my big wig all so mealy and white.
But supposing I knew them, both " measures and men,
Having half a day's leisure to give them—what then ?
I'm afraid I should find that it hardly would pay
To suffer your business to come in the way
Of my big wig all so mealy and white !

If any one asks my political creed,
I answer, 'tis one which each voter may read
In my big wig all so mealy and white.
In Church and in State my unchanging belief
Is to change with my clients—to look to my brief—
And if you elect me, I fairly may boast
That it shan't be my fault, if not found in my post
With my,big wig all so mealy and white!