An account of that Fatal Quarrel which took
place between Mr Mathieson (public house
keeper in North Fowlis's Close, High Street,)
and his wife, on Wednesday last ; when, in
consequence of violent blows received from her
husband, she was taken to the Infirmary;
where, after being delvered of a still-born ehild
she died on Saturday last, 27th March.

On Wednesday, the 24th day of' March, 1824, a man of
the name of Mathieson, who keeps a. public house in
 North Fowlis's Close, High Street, quarrelled with his
wife, and struck her repeatedly several violent blows.
Reports say that some of the wounds were inflicted with
a bottle, and that the quarrel originated in Mrs Mathieson
having admitted into the house some women of bad
character. The woman being far advanced in a state of
pregnancy, became very ill, and.was removed to the In-
firmary, where, after giving birth to a dead-born child,
she died on Saturday morning, 27th March. The man
has been lodged in jail, in order to stand trial for the
horrid deed.

MELANCHOLY ACCIDENT.

Inverness, March 25th.

We have seldom the mournful task to record so melan-
choly an accident as happened in our vicinity last week.
A person engaged in building a house near the Caledonian
Canal, employed four men from Clacknaharry to convey
stones from the Redcastle Quarry, on Saturday last. The
boat employed on this occasion was old and insecure,' and
on her return, from the quarry deeply laden, sunk at a dis-
tance of about two hundred yards from the Redcastle Pier,
when, melancholy to relate, the employer and whole crew
perished. Four of these men were married, and have left
widows, and a number of helpless children to deplore their
fate. The other was a young man who supported his
aged and infirm relatives. The bodies were found as the
tide retired, and conveyed next day to Clachnaharry,
where a scene of distress ensued among their families and
neighbours which we need not describe.

MELANCHOLY SUICIDE.

London, March 1824.

A painful sensation was excited at the west end of the
town on Wednesday, 24th March, in consequence of a ru-
which obtained circulation, that a naval officer of high
rank had put a period to his existence....On inquiry, this
rumour was not without foundation, and that the unfortu-
nate individual who had thus fallen by his own hand, was
George Ralph Collier, K. C. B. a Captain in the Royal
Navy. This gallant officer, it appears, had been residing
for some time back at Gordon's Hotel, in Albemarle-street,
and during that period was observed to be considerably
depressed in spirits. On Tuesday he called at the United
Service Club-house, of which he was a member, and here
he shewed strong symptoms of irritation, in consequenco
of some severe strictures upon his conduct, which he said
were contained in 'James's  Naval History." On Wed-
nesday morning, his feelings ware again excited to a state
of momentary phrenzy, and, while labouring under this
paroxysm, he seized a pistol, and in a moment deprived
himself of life.
  Edinburgh—Printed for Alexander Brown.