
ONE POUND TWO

     ____________

Printed  and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Stationer, &c.,  9  King

Street, Glasgow,                             .

Upwards of 500 sorts always on hand ; also, a choice selection of
Song- Books, &c.    Shops and Travellers supplied on the most
liberal terms.

Now Maggy dear, I do hear you have been on the spree.
Where is my whole week's wages gone, I pray come tell to me;
When I come home at night I get no smell of drink on you,             
Yet I wish to know how you lay out my one pound two.

Johnny, my dear, I have it here, penn'd down in black and white,
Come count it up now after me, and see if I am right ;
You're told I have been on (he spree, you'll find it is not true,
Now I'll let you hear how I've laid out your one pound two.

In the first place, there's two and twopence for 12 lbs. of flour,
And twopence half-penny for yeast, altho' its rather sour.
And four score of potatoes, you know no less will do,
This is five and fourpence half-penny out of your one pound two.

For two hundred of coals this week one shilling I did pay.
Each morning a fourpenny loaf and one on a Sabbath day ?
And every morning for the child a half-penny it is true,
That is just nine shillings out of your one pound two.

There's sevenpence for sugar and sevenpence for tea,
And sevenpence tobacco, that's a penny worth each day ;
There's two shillings paid for beef. and you know no less will do,
And that is twelve and ninepenee out of one pound two.

There's a shilling goes for butter, and that is of the best.
And fourpence more for vegetables, now add up the rest ?
Now my dear you say, what do I with your money do,
That is fourteen and a penny out of your one pound two.

There's ninepence for a pound of ham, &sevenpence for steaks, 
And sixpenec too for candles, it everv week does  take:
There's twopence for two herring I paid this week
That is sixteen and a penny out of your one pound two. 

That is sixteen and a penny out of your one \ill\.