HATTON WOODS

OR THE

BONNIE WOODS

0' HATTON.

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box,
224 Overgate, Dundee.

Ye comrades and companions, and all ye   females dear,

To my sad lamentations, I pray you lend   an ear ;

There was once I lo'ed a bonnie lass, I lo'ed her as my life,

And it was my whole intention to make her my we dded wife.

I courted we' the bonnie lass a Twelve-month-and-a-day,
Sometimes among the green grass, sometimes among the hay ;
I courted her the leelang night, and part of the next day,
Till she says, My dearest Sandy lad, it's time you were away.

Now say my dearest Molly  when shall we set a time,
When you and I will get married, and hands together join,
And we'll sit in oor wee cottage, and ye'll neither spin nor sew,
Whilemyaingude-heartedhireman lad goes whistlin at the plough

There's Cadum and there's Cadum Mills and Luther Mills likewise
There woods and waters many more pleasant to mine eyes,
But the bonnie woods O' Hatton, they a' grow green in May,
It was there about the lassie lived that stole my heart away,

I'll mind about you bonnie lass when I am far awa,
I'll speak about yon bonnie lass to them she never saw,
I'll tell them that I loed her well but to me she proved untrue,
And she left me doon by Hatton Woods my follys for to rue.

But blessings on yon bonnie lass, where ever she may  be,
I wish no evil unto her although she slighted me,
I only wish that she may  say  some day before she die,
I wish I had wed yon hireman lad that sang so sweet to me'

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
Can always be had at the Poet s Box.

The Midnight Express.
The Wanderer.
Fine Big Woman.
Down Among the Coals.
Sweet Seventeen.
The Auld House.
Mother's Parting Gift.
Comrades.
Death of Nelson.
The Lea Rig.
The Man that broke the
Bank at Monte Carlo.

Dont put my Father's Picture

up for sale.
The Iron Horse.
The Little Green Leaf in the

Bible.

Down by the River I strayed.
The Night Maloney  Landed

in New York.
Wot Cher ! or Knockod 'em

in the Old Kent Road.
Banks of Allan Water.
Let me like a soldier fall.