A Full and Particular  Account, of the Great Battle
between JOHNSON and HALTON, on Monday the 7th
March,1825, in a Field, 12 Miles  west of Edin-
burgh, for Fifty Pounds sterling.

YESTERDAY being the time appointed  for this momentous en-
counter, and being Saint Monday  besides, every son of
Crispin, and every knight of shrens and patches was early on the
more for Winchburgh, lrishman fight for pleasure, Englishmen for '
fame, and Scotchmen when they can't help it. The last love to look
on however. The place of rendezvous,through fear of unchivalrous
beaks, had been kept a profound secret to all but the knowing ones.
 In the morning, however, the humbler friends of the fancy scented
the odour of preparation. The circle action was a comfortable lea
field, on the farm of kirkland on the souchren bank of the Union
Canal, nearly midway between Winchburgh and Broxburn. The
ground was soon covered by an immense concourse of spectators.
All sorts of drags were in tremendous requisition, from the potent
chariot and four, followed by unnumbered pupils of the quoniam at-
tachiamenta down the humble apple cart of our Irish hucksters. Not
a few of the peepers were of rank enough to feel queer should they
have been suspected of any vulgar predilection for a mill. But the
love of claret levels all distinctions. At a few minutes before two
o'clock, Gypsey Johnson threw his castor into the ring with the air
of a Hector, amidst the applauses of thousands. His second imme-
diately attached his ensign, in the shape of a blue Belcher, to the
ropes of the ring. In ten minutes after, Halton, au ugly carrotty
cropped Potatoe, made his bow, and was received with similiar plau-
dits. His second unfurled a green wipe, in honour of the grassy
bills of his country Both men, on peeling, seemed prime meat,
Johnson carried at least a eouple of stones more than Hallon. But
Paddy was a perfect Longimanus ; his feelers being about the dimen-
sions of a couple of ordinary flails. The candidates having skyed a
copper for the sun, came to the scratch at two o'clock.

Round 1.—Johnson opened the budget but seemed queerish ; act-
ing on the defence ; made the periphery of the ring. Halton came
up, however, and tipped  him a touch on the trunk; this was well
met and returned by a teaser on the capitol, which Halton .gracious-
ly acknowledged by an instaneous prostration, Johnson above. Old
England for ever.

2.    A short round.    Jolmson shewed first claret from the snot-
-cock; a smart rally;  some tolerable weaving; much outerhouse
practice, both down, Gypsey; undermost.    Huzza for Old Ireland.

3.    Halton tried an experiment on the Gypsey's puddingbag; but
the enemy was too quick for him.   Johnson tried a return ; but the
compliment waa met by a tap on the magazine, that hurled him out
of the ring.     Johnson kissed the sod beyond the ropes.—The Hill
of Howth to a frosted potatoe for Pat.

4.    Halton examined the Gypsey phrenologically ; felt him on the
mount of bumps ; Johnson shy and retiring in his habits.     Hal-
ton, however, wanted pluck, and did not go in.    A good deal of
straggling play, but no game.      At lenth both down, Johnson up-
permost.—Well done Gypsey ; that's a presser.

5.     A well contested round, and lasted four minutes.     Jonnson
still fighting shy, followed round the ring by Halton, who got his
dexter ogle obnubilated by a discharge from Johnson's maniple.—
Hurra for Johnson ; come it quick, and you'll win.

 6. Johnson alive ; made good play : sent a shaker after Patrick's
knowledge box. Pat shyed the favour, however, and caught the com-
pliment on his shoulder; Halton turned quaker; a sharp rally;
both down, Johnson under.—Shouts for either.

7.    Johnson aimed a tremendous corporation hit; Pat returned by
a facer : both turfish.

8.  and 9.    Lots of sparring, but no harm ; both down.

10. A hard fought round; Pat, put in his favourite facer, and
stopped a right-handed return from Johnson. Halton punished
his adversary round the ring, close to the ropes. The Gypsey made
a desperate effort. The enemy skulked, but the suspension was re-
fused, with costs against Halton. Johnson fell from a tingler on
the left Ing, that rendered him deaf to time. Halton was proclaim-
ed victor, with small punishment.

This terminated the battle, certainly much to the disappointment
of the gapers. It was hinted that they had seen a better mill be-
tween a brace of haddy wives,. The fight lasted only twenty mi-
nutes. Johnson seemed more exhausted; and neither were hurt.
Some hints went round of a cross. Halton is an open flighter and
a good man. Johnson was either very cool or much afraid. He
does not stand firm on his pins, but was continually shifting his
ground. Good order and humour prevailed ; the bets were few;
Sawney afraid of being called on to fork the blunt.