TRIALS     

AND                                                              

SENTENCES,

OF THE DIFFERENT PRISONERS   WHO HAVE STOOD

THEIR TRIALS AT THIS CIRCUIT.

GLASGOW, 8,SEP.1840.

The autumn Circuit commenced this day. The Lords Meadowbank
and Cockburn arrived in town about ten o'clock, and ware accompanied
by the Magistrates, a detachment of police, headed by Captain Miller, with
a party of Dragoons and the band.

After the Judges had taken their seats  on the Bench, the Court con-
stituted by prayer, and the roll of Jurymen called over.    Six were fined
for non attendance.    The first prisoner brought forward was
Daniel M'Donald, for passing coin, pled guilty , Sentence delayed.
James Cunningham, theft, habit and repute, pled not guilty.    A num-
ber of witness were examined who distincty proved the prisoner's guilt
Seven years' transportation.

George Allardice, culpable homicide, by discharging a cannon  loaded
with oakum, and killed Duncan Macintyre, who was passing in a carriage
at the time. One month's imprisonement in Dumberton Goal.

Agnes Sharp or Buchanan, striping children in Greenock, pled guilty.
One year's imprisonement in Bridewell.         

Mary Johnston, theft.    Twelve month's  hard labour in Bridewell.

William Hamilton, theft, 14 yesrs transportation.

Cathrine Chandler,   theft, Seven times   previously convicted.    Seven
years' transpotation.

Jean Russell. theft. Seven years' transportation.

Elizabeth Hanigan, theft. Seven years'  transportation.

William Thomson, stealing three cows in  Kilbride.   Seven years' trans-.
portation.

John Ramsay, theft.   Seven years' transportation.

Joan Campbell. theft, from a house in Old Wynd, and being a  common
thief. Seven years' transportation.

Mary Girdwood, theft.    Seven years' transportation.

William Barclay. theft.    7 years' transportation.
Matthew Graham, from Greenock  theft    7 years' tranportation .
George Williamson and  John;M-Inulty, theft.    18 months In Bridewell

Alexander  M.Gregor, theft.    7 years' transportation.
William Turner charged with assaulting and robbing Alexander Livingtone,
of Maybole in Hamilton.14 years transportation.

Walter Whyte, and Margaret Dynan or White, embezzlement.      Charge
provan.    White 4 and  his wife  12 months  in Paisley Bridewell.

Robert Osborne, James Pattison, Elizabeth Law and Thomas Law, theft and
reset.    Osborne, 14 years, Pattison,  10 years, Elizabeth Law, 1 year at hard 
Labour in Bridewell.

SECOND DAY, WEDNESDAY.

Daniel M'Donald, passing base coin; 12 months in brideweal

Hannah Martin, theft, 7 years transportation.

Jane Stewart, Housebreaking in Greenock. 14 years transportation.

Grace M' Gunuigal, theft,7 years transportation.

James Miller, theft,           do          do       

John  M'Donald, passing base money in Greenock, fortune  do

John Chandler, theft, seven        do           do

James Rankin, Isabella Munro, Rose Ford, and Margaret  Nellis, theft in An-
derston. seven years transportation.

Nancy Brown, theft of a mantle, 12 months in bridewell.

Robert Paton and janet Stewart theft, Paton 7 years transportation and Stew-
art 12 months in Paisley bridewell.
William M'Curdie theft seven years transportation .

Charles Patonland John Tait, theft, outlawed.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE HORRID & CRUEL

MURDER

OF MRS KENNEDY, BELONGING TO KIL-
BARCHAN, BY HER:OWN HUSBAND.
who gave her a doze of ARSENIC,  whereby she lost her
LIFE.               

ALSO AN   ACCOUNT   OF   HIS   APPREHENSION   AND
COMMITTAL TO PAISLEY GOAL.

From the Glasgow Constitutional of Septembsr 9th 1840.
" Alledged Murder by Poisoning—On Friday a man named Kennedy,
was apprehended in Kilbarchan, charged with having administered to his wife a
dose of arsenic, which caused her death. He was the same day taken to Pais-   
ley, where, after an examination, he was  committed for trial.

TRIAL OF

M R    G E A G  H.

Newport has been considerably excited for some time back, on account
of the apprehension and committal for trial of Mr F. Geach son indew
and attolney of John Frost, (who was to have been Executed  for Tretson)
for an extensive Forgery on the Banking House of Williams & Co.

The amount of the forgeries was £4,956 15s 8d.which consisted of
three promissory notes. purporting to he signed by Miss Rachel Herbert
a relative of Geach's wife, for the respective amounts of £882  6s 8d.
£ 1000,and £1000,and endorsed by Gench ; and two bills of exchange.
for £1,157  16a. 9d and £1066 12s,3d,both drawn by the prisoner.
and purparting to to be drawn by  Edward Williams.

The trial came on  last, Monday___Miss  Herbert  was  called  to  prove
that the signature,purporting to be hers, were Forgories.-Mr.Edward 
Williams, proved the acceptances, purporting to have been signed by him
were also Forgarios.     A number of other witnesses were  called,  who dis-
tinctly brought the charge home to the prisoner.

The Jury retired for a considerable time, when they brought in a ver-
dict of GUILTY  but recommended him to the merry of the Court,
for the purpose they said of shewing that they had no ill will to the
prisoner.  He was after receiving a solemn advice them the judges 
sentenced to be Transported for TWENTY YEAR !!! 

Carmichael  Printer Glasgow.

