A Pull and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of WILLIAM ALLAN, who was tried at
Edinburgh, on Tuesday the 27 th of December, 1825,
for the Barbarous Murder and Robbery of Alexander
M'Kay, on the 17th September last, and who is to be
Executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 10th February,
1826, and his body to be delivered over to the Pro-
fessor of Anatomy of that city for Dissection.

YESTERDAY, Tuesday, December 27, 1825, came on before
    the High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of WILLIAM ALLAN,
late  Crofter at Arthur Seat, in the Parish of Monquhitter, and
County of Aberdeen, accused of the crime of Murder and Rob-
bery, committed on the person of Alexander M'Kay, late Drover or
farm-servant, by having, with the loaded end of a whip, or some
other blunt and heavy instrument, struck him several times severely
on the head, face, and sides, whereby he was knocked to the ground,
his skull fractured, and one of his ribs broken ; and while in that
state, of having robbed him of a one pound note, and several pieces
of silver coin ;   and in consequence of these  wounds,  Alexander
M'Kay  was  mortally wounded, and died on   the night of the 2d
October last; to which Allan pled Not Guilty.

William Simpson, procurator-fiscal of Aberdeen, identified the
declarations of the pannel, several articles of apparel worn by him
at the time of his apprehension, also the whip,....it was a loaded
cart-whip, with a brass handle ; also a plaid which belonged to the
deceased, two one pound notes, and some pieces of silver coin found
upon the prisoner, and referred to in his declaration. Mr Simpson
also identified a deposition of M'Kay, taken previous to his decease,
and that he was perfectly collected at the time.

Captain Jonathon Forbes, of the 78th regiment, passed the toll-
bar of Fyvie, on the 17th September, on his way to Aberdeen.
Arrived at the toll about nine o'clock in the morning. Heard of a
man being robbed, and went into the doctor's house, and found a
man there with a large wound in his head. There were some por-
tions of brain on his shouldet. He called himself Alexander M'Kay,
and said he belonged to Satherlandshire. Witness went for Mr
Hay, a magistrate. The man described the place where he was
robbed to be about half a mile from the inn. He said he had been
knocked down by a man, William Allan, who had travelled with
him. He described Allan's dress accurately,....a militia cap, brown
snuff-coloured coat, trowsers, and short boots, and a whip. He said
it was with the whip he had been struck, and that it had a heavy
head ; and that he had been robbed at the same time of 36s. He
said he had slept with Allan the night before at Daviot; that he
suspected the day before that Allan had some design against him,
as he had wished him to go through a wood, which he refused.
That Allan had seen him count his money several times. Witness
asked M'Kay how he had continued with Allan after suspecting
him ; to which he replied, that he had spoken so fair to him, and
premised him lodging for nothing with his father till the fair of
Tarvis. Witness saw some marks of whins, on M'Kay's shoulder.
Mr Hay rode to the place, along with witness, where they found a
hat, and stick, which were M'Kay's. Witness rode to Aberdeen
that night, and gave information to Mr Simpson. It was a very
lonely place where they found the hat and stick.

Several witnesses described meeting the deceased and the prisoner
travelling together towards Fyvie, within eight miles of which, at
Comieston, the latter resided.

The Jury were addressed for the Crown by the Lord Advocate,
and for the pannel by Mr James Gordon The Lord Justice Clerk
summed up. After being inclosed about fifteen minutes, the Jury
returned a unanimous verdict of Guilty.

Lord Meadowbank, after commenting upon the murder perpe-
trated by the pannel, which'for encrmity was unparalleled, consider-
ing the insignificance of the object to be gained by it, proposed that
he should be executed at Aberdeen, on Friday the 10th February
next, betwixt the hours of two and four afternoon, and his body
given over to the Professor of Anatomy in that city for public dis-
section. Lord Mackenzie and the Lord Justice Clerk having con-
curred, judgment was pronounced accordingly.

The pannel is a young man, who, we understand, was married
only four or five months previously to the commission of the crimes,
for which he is to suffer. He appeared earnest but composed
throughout the trial; while the Jury were inclosed, he appeared ex-
cessively anxious to speak to one of the witnesses, who, notwith-
standing his many signals, did not approach him.

Edinburgh :—Printed for William Henry—Price One Penny.