The mantle so Green.

As I was walking one morning in june.
To view the gay fields and meadows in bloom,
I espied a young female, she appeared like a queen,
With costly fine robes, and a mantle so green.

I stood in amaze and gazed with surprise,
I thought she was an angel who had fallen from the skies
Her cyes shone like diamonds, her cheeks like roses,
She is one of the fairest that nature composes.

Said I, lovely fair one, if you will agree,
We will join in wedlock, and married we will be;
I'll dress you in rich attire, you'll appear like a queen,
With costly fine robes round your mantle so green.

She quickly made answer--you must me excnse,
For I'll wed with no man, so you must be refused;
To the green woods I'll wander, to shun all men's view,
For the lad that I loved was at famed Waterloo.

Then since you will not marry, tell me your lover's name,
For I have been in battle, and might know the same ;
Draw near to my garment and then will be seen.
His name is embroidered on my mantle so green.

In the raising of her mantle, its there he did beheld.
His name and his surname in letters of gold ;
Young William O'reilly appeared to my view,
He was my chief commander at famed Waterloo.

We fought so victorious when bullets did fly,
In the field of honour your true love he did die;
He fought for three days, until the third afternoon,
When he received his death-wound on the 18th of June.

When he was dying I heard his last sigh.
Were you here, lovely Nancy, contented I would die;
Peace is proclaimed, now the truth I declare,
Here is your lover's token, the gold ring I wear.

The longer she viewed it the paler she grow,
She flew into his arms, with a heart full of woe ;
To the green woods I'll wander, for the boy that I love,
Rise up, lovely Nancy, your grief I'll remove.

Nancy, lovely Nancy. I have won your heart,
In your father's garden the day we did part;
In your father's garden under a tree shady and green,
When I rolled you in my arms, in your mantle so green

This couple got married, I heard people say,
They had nobles attending on their wedding day ;
Peace is proclaimed, and the war is all o'er,
you are welcome to my arms Nancy, for evermore.