Sally Munro.  

Cone all you young  females  pray you attand, 
Un to those  few line that I have here pen'd;
I'll tell you the hardships I did  undergo,
With my bonny lass called Sally Munro,
James Dixon's my name, I'm a blacksmith by trade.
In the town of,Ayr I was born and bred,
From that unto Belfast I lately did go,
There I got acquinted with Sally Munro.

I  to this young lasssie a letter did send,
it was by a comrade, I thought him a friend,
instead of a friend to me, he proved a foe,
He ne'er gave my letter to sally Munro.
He told her old mother to beware of me,
He said I'd a wife in my own country ;
O, then said her old mother, now since it be so,
He ne'er shall  enjoy his young Sally  Munro.

For two months and better I never could hear.
A word from the la-s that I once loved so dear;
Until that one evening. 'twas in Sandy Row,
Its who should I m et but young  Sally   Munro.
I  told  her if she'd come to Newry  with me,
In spice; of her parents  there marrird we'd be;
She say  no objections I have now to go,
If you will prove constant  to  Sally  Munro.

Now here is my hand love and here is my heart,
Till death seperates us, we never will part,
Next day in acoach we for Newry did go,
And there I got married to Sally Munro.
Twas at Warren's Point the ship Newry lay,
With four hundred passengers ready for sea;
We then paid our passage for Quebec also,
And there I embarked with Sally Munro.

On the 14th of April, from the Point we set sail,
And bore down the channel with a pleasent gale ;
The parting of friends caus'd sometears for to flow
But I was quite happy with Sally Munro.
On the second evening there came on a  fog,
There on the Welsh  coast our fine vessel did leg;
To Caernarvon Bay, while all  were below,
I ne'er thought' twas there   I'd   part with  Sally
Munro.

At nine o"clock that night nigh Bardsey we drew,
But the mist hid both light and land from view,
The woman and children were all down below,
And amongst the rest was my Sally Munro.
Here dreading no danger we met with a shock,
Twas all on a sudden she struck upon a rock ;
Two hundred and sixty who were down below,
Were drowned and so I lost Sally Munro.

Many a man in this voyage lost his dear wife,
And childred he loved far better than life ;
I was preserved, yet salt tears do flow.
And I  sigh when I think on my Sally Munro.
It Was from her parents I took  her away,
Which will check my conscience till my d ying day
It was not to injure her that I really did so.
All my life I will mourn for my Sally Munro.