RECITATION.

MY DEAR OLD SAXHORN.

I love thee, I prize thee, and who can scorn
Or chide me for loving my dear tenor horn ?
Together we've journeyed for many long years,
And the thoughts of our parting would cause
	bitter tears.
Thy music hath cheered me, when pressed down
	with care,
As we travelled together per terra et mare,
Through lands of bright sunshine, o'er seas deep
	and wide ;
Still faithful and constant thou clung to my side.

Then deem me not childish to cherish thee so,
For thy soul-stirring strains are a balm for my
	woe,
Without thee, this world would be  drear and
	forlorn ;
Thou faithful companion, my darling Saxhorn.
Though still and inanimate, yet thou hast sound,
And musical speech, most brilliant, profound,
Speech dearer to me-i.e., in a sense-
Than all vocal rhythm or grand eloquence.

Oh! often I think of those happy days past,
Ere sorrow and trouble their clouds o'er us cast ;
When bold and majestic we played in the Band,
And thy clear mellow tones were heard o'er the
	land.
Forget them ! no never, those dear happy days,
When together we shared in the honour and
	praise
For our fulness of tone, and phrasing so rare ;
Ah ! few in those days with us could compare.

In solo, fugue, cadence, and recitative,
How grandly we revelled, few could believe ;
Thy vibrating tones, like loud peals of thunder,
O'er  Bengal's hot plains caused natives to wonder.
Oh ! music, thy influence who can withstand ?
Thy power is felt in every land,
Not only by mankind, but creation mute-
Snakes, reptiles, fish, insects, the fowl, and the
	brute.

Thro' life's chequered  pathway what changes
	we've seen ;
We've played for the gay, the grave and serene,
We've played to the camp, for the banquet and
	ball,
We've played " The Dead March," ah! saddest of
	all.
Alas for the beautiful days of the past ;
Their joys, so evanescent, were too sweet to last ;
Now lonely I wander, both sad and forlorn,
Scarce able to breathe in my dear tenor horn.

My once erect form is now bent down with woe,
And my steps they are tottering, feeble and slow ;
Whilst poverty, sickness, sorrow, and care,
And grief, beyond measure, have whiten'd my
	hair.
Old Time's cruel hand has furrowed my brow,
And my teeth-like my friends-ah ! where are
	they now ?
Alas, they have vanished with th' exception of
	one-
Like  the  " The Last Rose   of  Summer"-left
	decaying  alone.

But the loss of my dentals I soon could forget,
If I had but the means to obtain a new set ;
Yet still, I'll not murmur, why should I repine ?
I have one solace left me, this true friend of mine ;
A staunch, true, and tried one-one faithful till
	death-
A friend that I've shared with, aye, even my
	breath,
Though now old and friendless, forsaken, forlorn,
I still have a friend in my trusty Saxhorn.

Together we've lived, together we'll die,
And placed in one grave, still  united we'd lie ;
For cruel 'twould be such true friends to part,
Such thoughts, even now, brings a pang to my
	heart.
When life's journey's  ended, grant me this request
In one grave together, please lay us to rest ;
This simple inscription our headstone adorn,
" Here lies poor old Jim and his E flat Saxhorn".

J. M. WILLIAMS,
Formerly of  the Band XL Regt.