THE HARP THAT ONCE.

Through Tara's Halls,

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular song can always be had
in the Poet's Box, [              ], Glasgow.

TUNE.—Original.

The harp that once through Tara's hall
The soul of music shed,
Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls,
As if that soul were fled.
So sleeps the pride of former days,
So glory's thrill is o'er,
And hearts that once beat high for praise,
Now feel that pulse no more.

No more to chiefs and ladies bright
The harp of Tara swells,
The chord alone that breaks at night,
Its tale of ruin tells.
Thus freedom now so seldom wakes,
The only throb she gives,
Is when some heart indignant breaks.
To show that still she lives.

CATALOGUE OF NEWEST SONGS.

Cock-tail Joe				Mantle so green
Chapel meeting of Swanlinbar		Margaret and the min ter
Dolly Daisy				My stick
Dutchman's little dog			Monk and the miller's wifa
Dimes and dollars			Moet and Chandon
Down among the coals			Molly Astore
Donald M'Donald				New song in praise of Will-
Dawning of the day				iam, King of Prussia
Dan   O'Connell  and  Morris		Newcastle apothecary
O'Donnell;     or,   hatching		Only Nineteen years old
	chickens by steam		Othello's apology
Dublin carman				One bottle more
Excelsior				One legged goose
English emigrant			Old pine tree
Emmet's death				Pictures on the watt
Field of Waterloo			Pretty little girl with auburn
Frien's aroun' the table set			hair
Forlorn Quaker				Pride o' Edinboro'
Goodbye at the door			Pope in a, hobble
Grand dissolving views			Please to ring the bell
Gaily still my moments roll		Paddy's market
Gilmorehill				Quaker's meeting
God bless the Lord of Lorne		Rock me to sleep
Gallantpoacher				Raven
Haill rick-ma-tick (2 versions)		Roman fall
Hark ! I hear an angel sing		Rory of the hills
Here's to the maiden of bashful		Sporting Joe
	fifteen				Shepherd boy
Happy days may come again		Steam-loom weaver
Hardy Norseman				Shoo! fly! don't bother mt

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required, along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post. Immediate
despatch may be relied upon.

Saturday. Dec.18 18751                                 P.D.—3.9.1859.