A

WOMAN

IS THE

TORMENT of  MAN.

You married men. I pray, come listen to my lay,
I will tell you the truth if I can ;
You will by what I say. if attention you pay,
That a woman is the plague of a man.                                 _
If for breakfast you arrive, to light the fire you must Strive, "
And wash both the dishes and pan;
I wish that I had been dead the day that I was wed,
For a woman is the heartbreak of a man.

A man's toil is never done, he is constant on the run,
To keep his family decent if he can ;
But when yov take a wife, you wed yourself to strife,
For a woman is the torment of a man.
To her neighbour's house she does roam, and is never found
Clashing and backbiting is her plan ;               [ at home,
Thus tortured is the man who is joined in wedlock's band,
For a woman is the heartbreak of a man.

Only see them when they're young, they speak with an
To trepan you they try all they can ;     [angel's tongue,
But let the wedding past. and they think they have you fast,
They begin for to torture a man.
Then their tongues go like a clapper, always clitter clatter,
And to please them  I am sure you never can ;
They ara constant in the pet, if their way they do not get,
For a woman is the heartbreak of a man.

To the alehouse she will roam, leave her family at home,
And her clothes she is sure for the pawn;
When he comes from his  work, she'll fly at him like a Turk,
And that's part of the comfort of a man.
And if you chance to speak, your head she's sure to break,
With the first thing she gets into her hand,
With a beetle or a ladle, she will pound you while she's able
And this is the comfort of a man.

If you get a drunken wife, she'll torment you through life,
And that you may all may understand,
Even her children's clothes, the will of them all dispose,
O! this is the comfort of a man.
For drink I do declare, she will strip the house quite bare
Blankets, sheets, pot. and kettle, she will pawn ;
From morning until night, she will rage, scold and fight,
And this is the comfort of man.

Now, I think it is time for to conclude my rhyme,
And women, I would have you understand.
There is nothing through life like a good-tempered wife,
To add to the comfort of a man.
Then be kind to your wives, and you will lead happy lives,
And strive to make them happy through life;
For you all may understand that happy is the man,
Who is blessed with a decent sober wife.

Sold  by  JAMES   LINDSAY,  Printer and   Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate, Glasgow.
Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on hand;   also, a great
variety of Picture-Books, Song. Books,  Histories,  &c.
Shop and Hawkers supplied on Liberal Terms.