 THE      OLD       WORLD
OR

It is far from the World that  I have seen.
To  be Sung  is its own  Proper new Tune.

WHen  Vesper us   with Vitage gray,
   Had dark ed all our Hemispher,
And Pa œbus fled  out of the way,
Ablcuting all his beams so clear,
I heard a Man of Seventie Year,
With Sobs sore  fighting  from  the splene,

Saving as [ ]fter you shall hear,

Where is the  world that I have seen.



The World of Lawtie, Love  and Truth,
Of Manhood, Might and Nobleness,
T he World of Pittie and of Rueth.
The World of Perfect stedfastness ?
All were enclin'd to Soothfastness,
For then Deceit could no Man mean,
There was good Chear and Merriness,
Into the World that I have seen.

Then Dearth durst no ways show his face,
John Common wealth was well main tain'd
And Hospitalls in everie place,
For  sillie ones were then ordain'd,
All Deadlie seeds were well preveen'd,
By prudent Men which went between,
Then  were but few for Gold that groan'd
Into the World that I have  seen..



The Golden world that might be call'd
When wealth and welfare led  the Dance;
Then Marriage was not Bought  nor Sold,
Great  Usurers made none  alliance,
If  she was of Good  Governance,
For Gold they carried not a Prine.
Now Money makes  Good Ordinance,
For by the World that I have seen.



Now Malice,Murther.Dearth & cumber
Over  spreads our Country East and West,
Guiltless Slaughter out of number,  
Judgement  and Justice are supprests:
The poor man da lie is opprest.
And sport and play is counted Keen.
A true man wors  not where to left,
Alace the World that I have seen.



Then Manhood went by  Force and Might
Who reaved was revng'd no wrongs
None fought by Treason  nor by Slight;
To lye in wait his Foe to fang,
Their Shearing Swords were not so long;
And yet their Courage was Right Keen,
Their hardie  Hearts were Stout & strong
Into the World that I have seen.

The ground was  fertile with great encrase
And Cartel  kindlie,brought forth  Store;
Now wealth forsooth doth fast Decrease,
Pride, Povety, and Foul vain Glorie:
And Riches lurk in Hole and Bore,
Seditions day lie growing green,
Affaults the Realm ay more and more,
Far by the World that  I have seen.

The Men had whole Preheminence,
And Women were Obedient,
The Commons knew no indigence,
Nobles then Raised nor their Rent,
The Ground was Rich,the Heir content
Great Hoords of Mony then have been,
Now all that wealth away is went,
And wheres  the world that I have seen?.

The Temporal State  stood well content,
None longed for an Abacie.
None sought to reave the Kirk her Rent
That was Christs Garment thought to be
The Judge left partialitie,
And Lawyers sought no wrongous gain,
The Session Banisht Briberie,
into, the World that I have seen .

Then Credit craved no Hand Writ,
Forheight held out thro' he should pine,
Put mise sough not for to be free,
And Honour  would no wnyes   decline:
Faith and Friendship kept them full fine,

And Honestie held Conscience clean,
Kins-man strove nor for Mine and thine,

Ob where's the world that I have seen .

Now  worse &worse the world grows ay
No Betterment appears to be, 

The nearer hand the Latter day ,
The more mischief doth multiplie;
O thou that reing'st in Persons   Three,
Whose Power doth all things contain,
Grant us to rest in Peace with  THEE
From this  worst world that e're was seen.

A   M   E   N