A  NEW SONG    

CALLED THE

BOLD M'LUSKY.



You gallant sons of freedom that come from Erin's island,
come listen to a verse or two, its worthy of your smiling,
A battle was fought in Cumberland—a battle too, most cruel,
It was between M'Lusky bold and the brave Anthony Suel.

When Suel came into the field he was capering and smiling,
Saying, 1 can beat every Pat that comes from Erin's island.
The ring was made, the day was laid, to meet they were
most trusty;
The very first blow there was laid low Erin's bold M'Lusky.

M'Lusky he rose up again, and seemed not undaunted,
An Irishman you have got here. if that be what you wanted;
With skilful blows he laid him low, did the son  of an ancient
Paddy,
For nine knocks down out of ten rounds he gave the English
laddie.

I pray, brave Suel, now give in, I see pale death is coming ;
It's I will die before I yield to any Paddy living.
With that he threw him on the sand, they thought he us'd
him badly—
Hurrah! they cried, you'll win the day, my braw White-
haven laddie.

M'Lusky he got up again, and seemed not undaunted,
If you are the man, before me stand, this time I mean to
end it.
With that he drew a right hand blow—down went his
adversary—
Make him yield, give up the field, and from the ring was
carried.

Thousands there stood looking on, with wonder and alarm
To see their bully carried off, a man at either arm.
At the Market Cross you did stand, there crying on an Irish
Paddy;
But here's the youth from Ireland that will beat your Eng-
lish laddie.

You have brave lads in Cumberland, long run without cor-
rection.
You've muckle need of Patrick's seed to bring you to sub-
jection !
At the Market Square you did stand, there crying on a
Paddy,
But here's the youth from Derry town that will beat your
English laddie.

Printed and Sold by JAMBS LINDSAY, Stationer, &c , 9, King Street
Glasgow. Upwards of 5,000 different sorts always on hand: also,
a great variety of Song-Books, &c. Shops and Travellers supplied OB
the most reasonable terms.