THE ROCKS OF
BONNIE
GIBRALTAR.

This Popular Song can always be had at the Poet's Box,
224 Overgate, Dundee.

The first night I was married, laid in my marriage bed
There came a bold sea-captain and stood up at my bed side
Says arise arise O young man and go along with me
To the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar to fight the enemy.

She built her love a bonnie boat and a boat of noble fame
There were four-and-twenty mariners to row him back again
But the bonnie boat struck on a rock and she down to the bottom
of the sea.
The rocks of bonnie Gibraltar they have taen my love frae me.

The wind it blew courageously and the waving sea did roar
But the bonnie boat struck on a rock we shall never see her more
The bonnie boat struck on a rock and went to the bottom of the sea
Since the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar has taen my love frae me.

There's neither water will go on my face nor comb go in my hair
There neither coal nor candle light shall shine in my parlour
I will never marry anither man until the day that I dee,
Since the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar has taen my love frae me

O daughter daughter why do you sore lament
There's plenty young men in this place that case your heart
content,
There's plenty young men in this place but there's none to follow
me,
Since the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar has taen my love frae me.

The lowlands are bonnie and there's bonnie folk therein,
But there's no an entertainment for a stranger to go in
The sugar cane may moulder and sae may the hawthorn tree
Since the rocks of bonnie Gibraltar has taen my love frae me.

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
Can always be had at the Poet s Box.

The Midnight Express.
The Wanderer.
Fine Big Woman.
Down Among the Coals.
Sweet Seventeen.
The Auld House.
Mother's Parting Gift.
Comrades.
Death of Nelson.
The Lea Rig .
The Man that broke the
Bank at Monte Carlo.
Dont put my Father's Picture
up for sale.
The Iron Horse.
The Little Green Leaf in the
Bible.
Down by the River I strayed.
The Night Maloney Landed
in New York.
Wot Cher ! or Knocked 'em
in the Old Kent Road.
Banks of Allan Water.
Let me like a soldier fall.