 A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of Charles MacLaren, Thomas Grierson, and
James M'Ewan, accused of Housebreaking and
Theft, they having, on the 8th, or the morning of the
9th September, entered into the House of Thomas
Riddle, Esq. W.S. Gray Street, Newington, and
stealing there from a variety of Silver Plate, a Gold
Snuff-Box, a Pair of Pistols, &c. who are to be
Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednesday the I2th
February, 1823.

AT Edinburgh, on Saturday the llth January, came on before
the High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of CHARLES
MACLAREN, THOMAS GRIERSON, and JAMES M'EWAN,
.accused of theft and housebreaking, having, on the evening of Sun-
day the 8th, or the morning of Monday the 9th September, entered
the house of Thomas Riddel, Esq. W.S. situated in Gray Street,
Newington, and stole therefrom 18 silver forks, 31 silver table
spoons, 16 desert do, a soup ladle, 13 tea spoons, a sugar bason, a
number of plated candlesticks, a gold snuff box, a pair of pistols,
besides a variety of other articles.—-Further, with entering, on the
11th or 12th of the same month, the house of Colonel Monro, of
the Honourable Eaat India Company's service, situated in George's
square, and stealing a silver tea pot, sugar tongs, &c. besides seve
ral pieces of French lace, three silk gowns, and a silk scarf. The
pannels were indicted as being habit and repute thieves, MacLaren
having been eight, Grierson six times, and M'Ewan twice, in Bride-
well. To which the pannels pled Not Guilty.

After the fullest and clearest evidence, on the part of the prose-
cution, the Jury, after a few minutes consultation, unanimously
found the pannels Guilty of the first charge in the indictment, and
the second Not Proven ; and unanimously recommended James 

M,Ewan to mercy, on account of his youth.

Lords   Meadowbank and Succoth  having  separately  delivered
their opinions, the  Lord Justice-Clerk stated, that it was now his
painful duty to announce to  the  prisoners  the punishment which
the law had affixed to the crime of which they had been convicted
by a respectable and intelligent Jury of their country.    It is at all
times to be deplored that persons of such tender years should be-
come  liable to  such a  punishment; but, though young in years,
they had been going on  for a  long  period in a series of crimes,
Much us crime had increased among society, it had increased in a
ten-fold measure  among youth, which would lead one to suppose
that there were persons in this city, who made it a business to
train up boys in the most easy and expeditious manner of commit-
ting crimes.    Not having profited by the wholesome discipline of
bridewell, the prisoners had persisted in a course of crimes which
had brought them to this consummation.    It remained only for the
Court to deliver the dreadful sentence of the law, any it was most
earnestly to be hoped that their awful situation would serve as an
example to others, which would be the  desired effect.    It must
never be again held that youth  can be a protection to crime and it
will convince your guilty associates of the hazard which they run
if' they persist  in the course in which you have been engaged; an
occupation which sooner or latter  must  place  them in a similar
situation.     He trusted, however, that their example would have the
desired effect upon those who were following such courses. It was
impossible to conceive that such young  persons could have acted
.otherwise than as the instruments of their seniors ; but  he would
advise all such to retrace their steps, and make a full disclosure of
those sinks of infamy and vice, who prompted them on to their
rain, and to the certain forfeiture of their lives, to the offended laws
of their country.    His Lordship concluded a pathetic address, of
which we have given  but  a faint outline, by recommending  the
pannels to prepare to  appear  before   the judgment-seat of their
Maker—to pray, and to read the scriptures; and if they could not
roap themselves, they would get others that would do it for them ;
not to waste their time in idle expectations of mercy, for there was
nothing in their case which could support such an idea : That they
must entertain no other hopes of pardon but those which were to
he derived through the salvation of jesus Christ    He then passed
sentence of death, ordaining the pannels to be Executed at Edin-
burgh, on Wednesday, the 12th day of February next.

                    PRICE ONE PENNY.