COME DOWM AND OPEN THE DOOR,
L 0 V E.

Copies of this Popular Song can be had the Poet's Box,
182 OVERGATE, DUNDEE.

I'VE been to a party. I've been to A ball,
I've been where there's you can see :
I've been where there's swells, and  such pretty girls,
And I've had jolly good spree.
I've just staggered home, but I've lost my key,
My wife she won't open the door,
I've knocked and I've bawled, at the window throw
stones
For over two hours I'm sure

SPOKEN. —Not a bit of use, 1 can't get in. I've been stuck out here
in the snow, and the hail, and the sleet, and the rain (hic) for about
two hours, more or less, whilest upstairs there's my daer, precious,
darling, loving, tender harted, fat-headed wife. (hic) She's got her
head on the pillow, and she dosen't care whether mine is under a cart
wheel, or where it is (hic) and I've been bowling out at the top of my
voice-

CHORUS.—

Come down and open the door,love
Come down and open the door,
It's snowing and hailing, I give you my word,
I wont stay out late any more.
Oh ! come down and open the door, love,
You will have some pity I'm sure.
I'm drippin wet through, oh what shall I do,
If you don't come down and open the door.

I've been in a row, and got knocked about, 
They smashed my hat over my head ;
They emptied my pockets of all I had
And left me as tho' I were dead.
It's surprising to me I'm sure,
But somehow or other I have reached my home
And now that I'm here I can see very clear,
My wife she won't open the door.

SPOKEN. —My wife's a wretch, (hic) oh, she is. Most singular isn't
it? You see I've been out to a bit of a tripe supper with Johnson
(hic) of course you all know Johnson. Most peculiar, when I went
out this evening, or rather last evening, I was walking along as nice
and quite and as comfortable as anybody possible could walk (hic),
when all at once one of those beastly Kirbstones jumped up and hit
me right in the eye. (hic) Take affidavit I never spok to him, some-
thing fell down, (hic) I think it was me, two policemen picked me up,
very kind of them. "Why," he says, "there's one of us." "Only
one of you, ha, ha, ha ! then I'm blowed if I can't see two," (hic)
and could too. Why don't you go home and get indoors ?" he says
(hic). "Well," says I "I've lost my key, so I'll ask my wife once
again very kindly to"—

I'll try once again to wake my wife up,
No doubt she's in a sound snore,
I'll throw a big brick, and the window I'll brake,
Which must wake her up I am sure.
But there it's no us, if the truth it was known,
She's peeping at me through the blind,
I'm dripping we through, inside and out too,
So come down and open the door.

SPOKEN.—Here's a nice position for a respectable married man at
three o'clock in the morning, (hic) got to sleep out all night on the
doorstep or somewhere. Oh, there she is I do belive. Yes, my dear,
it is me. what ? four o'clock ! all the clocks are wrong, I knew the
time exactly twenty minutes past, twelvt, just left Johnson, dear.
Who's drunk? (hic) I'm as sober as a judge (hic) (aside.) Now for
a  little soft soap (hic) "I've bought you that now  bonnet, dear, also
the plum coloured dress you admired so much (hic.) It's all right,
they'll  be home in the morning with the milk, (hic) or  by first parcel's
post. Will you come down darling an I shift the bolts of hall door,
back a little so that I can get my foot (aside) I'd put up with the
rest, (hic) so once more, allow me to ask you very humbley to"—