The   B A L L A D   of the    

CLOAK,

OR               (70)

The   CLOAKS   Knaverie.

Come buy my new Baller,
I hav't in my wallet;
But it will not (I fear) please every pallet.
Then mark what ensu'th,
I swear by my Youth,
That every line in my Ballet is truth.
A Ballet of witt, a Ballet of worthe,
t'Is newly Printed and newly come forth :
It Was made of a Cloak, that fell out with a Gown,
That Crampt all the Kingdom and Crippl'd the Crown.

I'le tell you in Brief
A story of Grief,
Which happened when Cloak was Commander in chief:
It threw down our players,
Imprison'd Lord May'rs,
In one day it voted down Prelats and pray'rs,
It made people perjur'd in point of obedience,
Its Covenant did cutt off the Oath of alleadgeance.
Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down,
That Crampt all the Kingdom and crippl'd the Crown.

It was a Black-cloack
(In good time be it spoke)
That kill'd many thousands, but never struck stroke
With hatchet and Rope,
The forlorne Hope
Didjoyn with the Devil to pull down the Pope,
It sett all Sefts in the Island to work;
And rather then fail'd, would have brought in the Turk.
Then let us endeavour, &c.

It seis'd on the tower Guns
Those feirce demigorgons;
It brought down the Bagg-pipes and pull'd down the Or-
The pulpits did smoak,                         (gans;
The Churches did Choak,
And all our Religione was turn'd to a Cloak;
It brought in lay Elders could not write nor read,
It sett publicque faith up, and pull'd down the Creed.
Then let us endeavour, &c.

This pious Impostor
Such fury did foster,
It left us no penny, nor no Pater noster;
It threw to the ground
Ten Command' ments down,
And sett up twice twenty times ten of its own ;
It Rowted the King, and villaines elected,
To plunder all whom it thought disaffected,
Then let us endeavour, &c. 

To Blind peoples eyes,
This Cloak was so wise,
It took off Ship money but sett up Excise :
Men brought in their plate
For reasones of State,
And gav't to Thom Trumpeter and to his mate;
In Pamphlets it write many specious Epistles
To Cozen poor wenches of Bodkins and whistles.
Then let us endeavour, &c.

In pulpits it moved,
And was much approved
For crying out fight the Lords Battels beloved;
It Bobetail'd the Gown,
Put Prælacie down,
It trod on the Mitre to reach at the Crown;
And into the field ane armie did bring,
To aime at the Council, but shoot at the King.
Then let us endeavour, &c.

It raised up States,
Whose Politick pates
Do now keep their Quarter on the Citie Gates;
To Father and Mother,
To Sister and Brother
It gave a Commission to kill one ane other;
It took up Mens Houses at very low Rates,
And plundr'd our goods to secure our Estates.
Then let us endeavour, &c.

This Cloak did proceed
To a damnable deed,
It made the best Mirrour of Majesty Bleed;
Though Cloak did it not,
Yet he set it on foot
By rallying and Calling his Journeymen to't:
But never had come such a bloodie disaster,
If Cloak had not first drawn sword at his Master.
Then let us endeavour, &c,

Though some of them went hence               
By sorrowfull sentence,
This lofty long Cloak is not mov'd to repentance;
But he and his Men,
Twenty thousand times ten,
Are plotting to doe their tricks ov'r again:
But let this proud Cloak to authority stoop;
Or Cockburne will get him a button and loupe,
Then 1et us endeavonr to pull the Cloak down
That baselie did sever the head from the Crown.

Lett's pray that the King,
And his only Brother,
May be glorious, and helpfull one to ane other,
Both firmly united,
And lovingly such,
That, the sacred succession none may darr touch.
As Charles three Crownes enjoyes in possession,
James title is just to them all in reversion.
Then let us endeavour to pull the Cloak down
That Offers to Quarrel his right to the Crown..

Lett's pray, that the King,
And our Parliament.
In Sacred and secular things may consent,
So righteously firme,
And Religeously free,
That Papists and Phan's suppressed may be.
And as ther's one God that doth over-reigne us,
One faith, one Worship, one Church may contain us.
Then peace, truth and plenty great Brittain shallCrown.
And schisme  & sedition with their Authors shall down. 

FINIS.