MELODIST.

Fanny Gray.

Now really, Jane you're temper is.
So very odd to-day,
You're jealous, and of such a girl.
As little Fanny Gray,—
Make love to her,—indeed my dear
You could see no such thing,
I sat a minute by her side,
To see a Turgnouse ring.
I tell you that I saw it all—

The whispering and the grimace,
The flirting and the coquetting,
In her little foolish face,
Oh, Charles, I wonder that the earth
Don't open where you stand,
By the heaven that is above  us, both,
I saw you kiss her hand.

Well, well, sir, so your come at last,
I thought you'd come no more,
I've waited with my bonnet on, 
From one to half-past  tour.
You know I hate to Sit alone,
Unsettled where to go,
You'll break my heart—I feel you will,
If you continue so.
Now pray, my love, put by that frown,
And don't begin to scold,
You really will persuade me, soon,
You're growing cross and old,
I only stopp'd at Grosvenor gate
Young Fanny's eye to catch;
I won't—I swear—I won't be made
To keep time like a watch,

It took you, then, two hours to bow,
Two hours to take your hat;
I wish you'd bow that way to me,
And show your love like that;
I saw you making love to her,
You see I know it all,
I saw you making love to her,
At Lady Glossop's ball.

I didn't, love; but if I did—
Allowing that is true,
When a pretty girl shows her rings,
What can a poor man do?
My life, my soul, my darling Jane,
I love but you alone; 
I never thought of Fanny Gray,—
How tiresome she is grown.

Put down your bat, don't take your stick,
Now pr'ythee, Charles stay,—
You never come to see me now,
But you long to run away,
There was a time , there was a time,
You never  wished to go,—
low what have I done , what have I done,
Dear Charles, to change you so.

Pooh! pooh!  my love—I am not changed,
But dinner is at eight;
And my father's so particular,
Be never likes to wait,
Good bye! good bye!—you'll come again,
Yet, one of these fine days,
He's turned the street, I knew he would,
He's  gone to Fanny Gray.

Bold Princess Royal.

On the fourteenth day of February, we sailed from the land,
In the bold Princess Royal bound for Newfoundland,
We lad forty bright seamen for a ship's company;
And boldly from the eastward to the westward bore we.
We had not  been sailing past days two or three,
When a man from our masthead a sail he did see;
She came bearing down on us to see what we were, 
Whie under her Mizen black colours she were.

Good Lord ! cried our captain, what shall we do now,
Here comes a bold pirate, to rob us, I know
Oh no! cried our chief mate, that ne'er shall  be so,
Well shake out a reef, boys', and from her will go.
Nov when this bold pirate she hove along side,
With a long speaking trumpet, Whence come you,he cried;
Our captain being half  boys', he answered them so,
We came from fair London, we're bound for Cairo.

Come, haul  up your courses, and heave your ship to,
For I have a letter I'll send home by you;
I will haul up my courses, and heave my ship to,
But it shall be in some harbour, and not alongside of you
Come, hoist up your topsails, your staitsails too,
Top-gallant sails and royals, boys', and from her we go,
They fired shots after  us, but could not prevail,
When the bold Princess Royal soon shewd them her tail.

She cbaised us to windward for all that long day,
She chaised us to windward, but she could make no way;
She chaised us to windward, when she could make no stay,
So she hauled up her mainsail, and then bore away  
Thank God! cried our captain since the pirate is gone,
Go down to your grog, boys', go down every one,
Go down to your grog, boy's and be of good cheer,
For while we hare sea room, my boys', never fear.

Long, long ago,

Tell me the tales that to me were so dear,
Long, long ago, long, long ago;
Sing me the song I delighted to hear,
Long, long ago, long, long ago,
Now you are come, all my grief is removed.
Let me forget that so long ye have roved,
Let me believe that you love as you loved,
Long, long ago, long, long ago.

Do you remember the path where we met,
Long, long ago, long, long ago,
Ah yes! you told me you ne'er would forget,
Long, long ago, long, long ago,
Then to all others my smile yon preferred,
Love, when you spoke, gave a charm to each word
Still my heart treasures the praises I heard,
Long, long ago long ,long ago 

Though by your Kindness my rond hopes were
Long, long ago, long, long ago,              raised,
You by more eloquent lips have been praised,
Long, long ago, long, long ago,
But by long absence your truth has been tried,
Still to your accents I listen with pride,
Blest as I was when I sat by your side.
Long, long ago, long, long ago.