The birth of Young Ned.

It was on the ninth of november,
Eighteen hundred and forty-one,
Our beautiful Queen you',l remembar,
Did behold her first-born son.
All the young ladies of honour,
As they did approach near her bed,
Did praise the great bountiful Donor,
That rais'd up a prince called Ned.

When the news did spread through the City,
That a prince of Wales he was born;
The sight it was wondrous pretty,
There was great rejoicing that morn.
The guns they did fire on the Tower,
Enough to awaken the dead,
The bells they began that same hour
To proclaim the birth of young Ned.

The ladies admir'd the child's beauty.
They said 'twas a sweet love y boy.
They said Albert he had done his duty,
They wished him a great deal of joy;
They said since he crossed o'er the water.
He has been but twenty months wed
Now he's got a blooming yo ing daughter.
And a bonnie son called Ned.

Prince Albert he says my young daughter
Is twelve months old all but one day,
She was baptiz'd jordan's water,
Ned must be baptiz'd the same way.
For the Christening come let us make ready,
Off the nation all will be paid
We'll choose sponsors firm and steady,
To stan ! for our bonny son Ned

The Queen then she smi ing rep ied.
Edward it was my father's name.
I was but a child when he died,
I'm now rais'd to honour and fame.
I'm placed in a high  situation.
And you for your beauty I wed,
Let it now be proclam'd through he \ill\,
We ve got a young son ca led Ned

Fourteen thousand a-year off the nation.
The young prince of Wales will receive,
'Twould keep 14,000 from starvation,
That now some assistance do crave.
By the time they have twenty more,
And all off the nation are paid.
It's taxing they'll never give o'er,
If they all come as  quick as  young  Ned.

Fourteen thousand a year for a bairn,
It is quite too much the fo k  say,
Number would be glad they could earn,
These dull times, a shilling a day ;
There is throuhgout the nation.
That's ruined for the want of trade.
Some thousands are kept in starvation,
Supporting the friends  of  young  Ned.

John russell he said to Melbourne,
It's you and I will miss this feast,
'Twas once of it we had our turn,
But none of it now we will taste
Now Sir Robert Peel and his party,
At this time they will be well fed,
It's they will all eat and drink hearty,
At she christening of young  Ned.