Glasgow Trials

Account of the Trials and Sentences of
the various Prisoners who have stood
before the Circuit Court of Justiciary
since its opening on Monday last.

GLASGOW, 15th September, 1828.

This day, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened here by the
Right Hon. Lord Meadowbank, when, after an impressive prayer by
Mr. Muir of St. James's, the Court proceeded to try the following;
cases:-
ROBERT ANDERSON, for breaking into the Currying Shop of
David Mickel, Spoutmouth, on the 30th June last, and stealing a
guinea note, pled Guilty. 12 months' hard labour in Bridewell.
ALEXANDER RAMSAY, for stealing on the 20th May, in the
brewery of James Stewart, Tradeston, £2 and a pocket-book, pled
Guilty, 7 years' transportation.
JOHN AGNEW, for stealing on the 6th of May, from the house
of Wm. M'Alester, sen. Cheapside Street, Anderston, a silver watch,
pled Guilty. 7 years' transportation.
CATHERINE TOCHIL, for stealing wearing apparel from a
bleaching green in Rutherglen Loan, on the 21st August last, pled
Guilty. 14 years' transportation. On receiving sentence she said,
" Thank your Lordship, you can do no more."
JAMES PARK, accused of 8 different acts of falsehood, frand,
and wilful imposition, pled Guilty. 14. years' transportation.
GEORGE ARNEIL, for stealing from a till in the shop of Jas.
Tennant, grocer, Coatbridge, parish of Old Monkland, on the 10th
of April last, 14s. in silver. He was found Guilty. 14 years tran-
sportation. On going from the bar, the prisoner, pointing to one of
the local authorities said, " that man will be transported yet."
ISAIAH MOORE, accused of breaking into the house of Murdo
M'Kenzie, Ann Street, on the 9th May, and stealing a silver Watch
and appendages, and being habit and repute a thief, pled Guilty.—
7 years transportation.
JOHN CUBIE. for having, in June last, broken into the dwelling
house of Robert kay, Wallace Street, Tradeston, and stealing some
bed and table linen, wearing apparel, &c. and habit and repute a
thief, pled Guilty.—14, years' transportation.
JOHN MURRAY, for stealing 30lbs. of lead from the roof of a
house in Gibson Street, belonging to Mr Neilson, and being habit
and repute a thief, was found Guilty.—14. years' transportation.
JANET BLACK, for theft from a bleaching green in Abbey
Street, Paisley, and habit & repute; Guilty. 7 years' transportation.
This girl is only ten years of age.
PETER DONNELLY, for stealing on the 2d of June, from the
house of Mrs. Frier, Oxford Street, various articles of wearing appa-
rel, and being habit and repute a thief, was found Guilty.

Tuesday.—The last prisoner's sentence is 7 years' transportation.
FRANCIS JONES, for robbery, theft and assault, in Gallowgate,
on Sunday the 25th May last, pled guilty.—6 months' in Bridwell.
ALEXr. M'FARLANE, for sheep-stealing from the field of Rt.
Walkinshaw, Parkhouse, pled guilty.—7 years transportation.
WM. M'KINZIE, for assaulting, cutting, and stabbing his own
wife, on the 6th of June last, in Kelvin-Row, Woodside, Glasgow,
was found guilty.—14 year' transportation.
REBECCA WINTER, for stealing £90 11s. from the pockets of
James Watson, horse dealer, Belfast, while in a public-house in Prin-
ce's Street, Glasgow, pled guilty.—7 years' transportation.
THOs- YOUNG, DUGALD KELLY, and MATHEW DOUG-
HERTY, for stealing various articles, on the 30th July, from a house
in Carswell's Court, George's Street. Glasgow, occupied by William
Yeatts ; all guilty. The two first, 7 years transportation, and the
last. 12 months hard labour in Bridewell.
JAMES YOUNG, for theft and reset, pled guilty to the reset.—
14, months' in Bridewell.
Wm. THOMSON, for theft from the house of George Morrison,
Carswell's Court, George Street, guilty.—14 months' in Bridewell.
JAMES CUNNINGHAM, for assaulting various persons, as also
with malicious mischief; guilty of assault. 12 months' in Bridewell.
Nathaniel Balfour, Wm. Haddow, Robt. M'Phail, and Andrew Gil-
mour, jun. all in the same indictment, were outlawed.
ROBT. M'INTOSH & JOHN THOMSON, for theft and house-
breaking in Tradeston, pled guilty to theft. 14 years' transportation.
MARGARET ARMOUR, for theft from a house in Blue Vale, 
Glasgow, was found guilty.—7 years transportation.

Hugh Robertson, Charles Hill, Thomas Connar, and Bell M'M.-
nemy, assault and robbery; libel not proven against the two first,
but the two latter Guilty, who are to be Executed at Glasgow on
Wednesday the 22d Oct. next.
                      W. Carse, Printer.