" In Scotland, the Slaughter-house-keeper may pay
His Journeymen Butchers, and thrive on his prey :
The victims are quickly cut up in his shop,
And he pockets the profits, secure from the drop.

In Edina town, where your friend you may meet,
At morning, in health, walking forth in the street;
And, at evening, decoy'd and depriv'd of his life,
His corpse fresh and warm is laid out for the knife."

A TIMELY HINT

TO

ANATOMICAL PRACTITIONERS,

AND THElR

Associates—the Resurrectionists.

A NEW SONG— Tune, Macpherson's Farewell.

WHAT is our land at last come to ?
Our ancestors would weep,
And say, with many, were they here,
" Look well before ye leap !"

Ye prowling Resurrectionists
Of every clime and shore,
Remember Burke, that smoth'ring wretch,
For he is now no more.

This monster, with his meagre chief,
In actions mean and low,
Resolv'd to rid the land of all
That wander'd to and fro,

Two buxom females, with those brutes,
In this work had their share:—
One party coax'd them to the den,
The other slew them there.

They with the greatest kindness wiled
Daft Jamie off the street,
Whose playful manners did delight
All that he chanced to meet.

With Judas smiles they did betray
The aged Dougherty;
Who wander'd long from door to door
In search of charity.

M'Dougal, Paterson, and more,
Were by those fiends beguil'd;
Nor did they shudder to destroy
The helpless smiling child.

Men, women, children, old and young,
The sickly and the hale,
Were murder'd, pack'd up, and sent off
To K—'s human sale.

That man of skill, with subjects warm,
Was frequently supplied;
Nor did he question when or how
The persons brought had died !

If he want subjects let him try
From France to get them o'er;
For he can get them, when he will,
Sent at Six pounds the score.

Or let him try some legal means
His subjects to obtain;
Nor ever more in word or deed
Wink at such tricks again.

One of the tribe has met his fate
On gibbet high and strong;
And if such pranks are play'd again,
The rest will swing e'er long!

Written by       WAG PHIL..

A Second Edition is published, of the Life and Death of JAMES WILSON, known by the
name of DAFT JAMIE.—Price THRIP Pence.

The rapid sale of the First Edition of this work, together with the liberal criticisms
which have been passed on it, not only by the Editor's envious acquaintances, but by
several of our Edinburgh Reviewers, render any further recommendation altogether unne-
cessary. The Author begs leave to submit the following as a specimen :—Extracted from
the Edinburgh Literary Journal, dated Jan. 24, 1829—" It seems a work of inestimable
value."
The Work is embellished with a striking Portrait of Jamie.    To be had of the Author,
 W. SMITH, 3 Bristo Port, and several Booksellers in Town and Country.