A MAN THAT IS

MARRIED.

When a man first appears in maturity's years.

TO encounter the troubles of life,

He thinks with delight he could make himself right,

Could he only get hold of a wife.
His suit then he'll press, miss answers him yes,

They marry— he thinks her a queen,
But the honey moon o'er, he thinks her a bore,

And cries, laws! what a flatty I've been,

Heigho ! lack a day, oh !
A man that is married is like to good lack !
A bear with a monkey tied on his back.

In nine months at least there his troubles increase,
The cash from his pocket to draw ;

And to make matters worse comes the doctor and nurse,

And his wife snugly laid in the straw,
Then the gossips come in, whilst they're supping the gin,
Before they can turn down the clothes,

They cry with a grin , there's its mammy's own chin,

And exactly its daddy's pug nose.

Heigho ! lack a day, oh !
A man that his mrried has so many ills,
He's like a poor fish with a hook in his gills.

Should the weather prove hot, summer trousers he's got.

And that forms a part of his dress;

If he nurses the child ten to one but they're spoil'd,

They 're sure to be made a fine mess,

But if he walks out, see him strutting about,

Like a nabob he's cutting it fat;
But returning at night he's different quite,

The child's napkins are stow'd in his hat.

Heigho ! lack a day oh !
A man that is married has lost every hope,
He's just like a pig with its leg in a rope.

His evenings to spend, he goes out with a friend,
To enjoy both his pipe and bis pot,

His mind to amuse he read over the news,

Takes a hand at all fours or what not.
But if he stops late and makes madame wait,

He's sure to get plenty of jaw;

There's is   the riot act read ere he gets into bed,

Or aloud declaration  of war.

Heigho ! lack a day, oh !

A man that is wed to a woman that's queer,
Had better be plagued with a flea in his ear.

Perhaps she may smile, prove false all the while,
That she loves him, she swears to his face,

As soon as he's gone , and she's left alone,

Another pops into his place.
Then happy and gay to the ball or the play
Each night with her lover she'll roam,

But she's in her own house , and as still as a mouse,

On the day she expects him at home.
Heigho ! lack a day, oh !

A man that is married is always in dread,

Of a large pair of horns growing out of his head.

But before my song's done, I'll rub off as I run,
I don't wish the poor creatures to vex,

I was merely in joke every word that I spoke,

O bless them, I love the whole sex.

Lade take my advice ,get switched in a trice,

And don't be of wedlock afraid;

And girls do the same , go and alter your name,

For 'tis shocking to die an old maid.

Heigho l lack a day, oh !
A man that is married and got a good wife,
Will find they're the happiest days of their life.

THE   LITTLE

GIPSY GIRL


Sec.4.

My father is a king of the gipsies 'tis true,
And my mother is learning the camping to do,
With my pack on my back, they all wished me well,
When,I set off for London some fortunes to tell.

As I was walking through fair London streets,
Two handsome young squires I chanc'd to meet;
They view'd my brown cheeks, as they liked them so well
They said, my little gipsy girl, can you our fortunes tell.

O, yes, she replied, give me hold of your hand,
You have got riches both houses and land ;
All the pretty lasses you must lay aside,
It's the little gipsy girl that must be your birde.

He led her through woods and valleys deep I'm sure,
Where I had got servants to open me the door,
On a rich bed of dawn he pleased me well,
And in nine months after his fortune I did tell.

Once I was a gipsy girl but now a squires bride,
I've servants now to wait on me, and in my carriage ride
The bells did ring merrily and sweet music play,
As we crown'd the glad tidings of that lucky day.

92.