TOON OF ARBROATH.

Copies of this Song can always be had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter
Street, Dundee.    Price One Penny.

Although far frae hame and the blooming heather,

Thousands of miles across the deep sea,

At night, when I'm weary, my mind loves to wander
To the scenes of my boyhood, so dear unto me.

CHORUS______Then here's to the sons of the dear old St. Thomas,

The lassies are bonnie so blithe and so free ;
The auld Abbey ruins, the Cliffs, and the Commons,
The toon of Arbroath will be dear unto me.

The toon of Arbroath is my home and my birthplace,
It was there when at school with the rest of the boys,

When lessons were over we played till the gloamin',
It was there that I tasted my life's sweetest joys.

It was there where my father and mother both taught me
To deal honest and fair, to be kindly and free,

And never to forget there's One Eye above us,
That watches our actions where'er we may be.

It was there where I courted my ain bonnie Mary,

Her cheeks like the new rose, her skin like the snow ; 

I proposed, she consented, we kissed and concealed it,
Down by the Sealon Den where the burnie doth slow.



I've lived as an exile since I left old St. Thomas,

And toiled day and night on a far distant shore :
But like a true Scotchman my work it ne'er failed me,
So now I can boast I've got health and galore.

But the first ship that sails I'll go back to old Scotland,
To the dear old home that I left long ago ;

And when life's journey's over I will die then contented,
And my last sleep shall be beneath the Abbey ruin O.

A LIST OF POPULAR SONGS
That can always he had at the Poet's Box, 10 Hunter St., Dundee :

Jamie Raeburn

Hatton Woods

Coal Jock

Sodger Jock

Banks of Sweet Dundee

Braes of Strathblane

Down by the Magdalen Green

Flowery Banks of Tay
Cadgers of Dundee.  
Flora, the Lily of the West
Big Kilmarnock Bonnet
Rocks of Bonnie Gibraltar
Jamie Foyers
Donald's Return to Glencoe