Trials & Sentences

Of all the different Prisoners who have stood their Trials at the Cir-
cuit Court of Justiciary, which opened at Glasgow on Monday the
16th September, 1822, when one young man was sentenced to be
Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 23d of October next, for
Housebreaking and Theft.                                                              

GLASGOW, Sep. 16,1822.—This morning the
Justiciary Court was opened by Lord Pitmilliy.
That part of the passage at the back of the
Magistrates box, where so much noise and
shuffling used to prevail, has been laid with
carpeting, which will effectually prevent  this
inconvenience in future.

After the common formalities,   the Court
proceeded to the trial of

Euphemia M'Phail, for breaking into a dwel-
ling house at Floak, parish of Mearns, on the
12th of June last, occupied by Wm. Clark,
farmer, and stealing 12l. 6s.6d. in money, and
several other articles, pleaded guilty, and was
sentenced to 7 years transportation.
  George Buckley, accused of breaking into
the house of John Carfrae, rag-merchant, in
Great Dovehill-street, on the 30th of January
last, with intent to steal, was found guilty.—
Seven years transportation, (It will be recol-
lected that this prisoner attempted to make his
escape at the time of his apprehension, by leap-
ing out of the window of the house he was
plundering, but was taken up very little  hurt .)
James Campbell was indicted for " in so far
as,that on the 12thof July 1822,you the said 
James Campbell did, by means or false keys,
or otherwise to the prosecutor unknown, wick-
edly and feloniously break into and enter the
dwelling-house then occupied by Wm. Jones,
gardener, situated at Sighthill or Lodgmyloons
near Glasgow, in the shire of Lanark, on the
west side of the high-road leading from Glas-
gow to Kirkintilloch, and did then and there
wickedly and feloniously steal, and thestuously
carry away, from a lockfast desk or place of
keeping in the said house, 85 bank or bankers
notes some of them for one pound sterling each',
as also silver money to the amount of 51. ster-
ling or thereby, all the property or in the law-
ful possession of the said William Jones."
    Mr. and Mrs. Jones, the servant maid, and
other witnesses were then examined.  Mrs.
Jones swore particularly to one of the notes
Which were found on the prisoner when appre-
hended, as being in her husband's possesion
at the time of the robbery.
    The Jury found him Guilty, and after a most
impressive address from his Lordship to pre-
pare for another and a better world, he was

sentenced to be executed on Wednesday the,
23d day of October next.
   The prisoner is a good looking young man,
about 24 years of age, by trade a gardener, and
of very respectable parents. He was tried in
the month of October, 1819, for robbing a
shipmaster from Grangemouth,who hat been
decoyed by a girl into a house of bad fame in
the Calton, but was dismissed from the bar
owing to the want of evidence.
    Janet Alexander and Elizabeth Livingston,
for breaking into a counting house in Green-
ock, pled guilty, 12months in Paisley Jail.
    Thomas Weir, for assulting Wm. M'Phall,
wearer in Hamilton, and breaking Hamilton 
prison,was outlawed for not appearing
    James Brown and James Taylor for robbing 
Wm Kechni cattle dealer, of his pocket 
book containing about L 50, in the Saltmarket,
pled guilty. Transported for life.
    M 'Iannes for breaking in to a warehouse
in   Ingram street, pled guilty. Transported
for seven years.
    Donald  Rose, for falsehood, forgery, &c.
was outlawed.
    Tuesday, Sept. 17 John Morrison, weaver,
Paisley, for bigamy.12 months  hard labour
in Paisley bridewell, and thereafter banished
Scotland for 7 years.
    T. Brown, Jas Holmes, alias Letters, and
Mary Jarvis, alias Nimmo, alias Ruth Lamb,_
alias the Badger, for theft in the village of
Johnstone. 14 years transportation. Upon
receiving sentence the Badger exclaimed, in a
loud voice, " you may kiss my------."
    R. Young and J. Morrison, for stealing a
quantity of silver plate and other articles from
a house in Paisley. Transported 14 years
    Edward  Hand,from Greenock, for attempt-
ing to ravish a young girl of 12years of age.    
To be whipt  through the streets of Glasgow
on Wednesday  the 25th. instant and thereaf-
ter transported for life. He is a married man.
    J Stewart, for street robbery in Hutcheson
town. 14 years transportation.

Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.