THE

STRIFELING CAVALRY.

A NEW SONG:

Our Yeomen are on an' awa, brave boys,
Our, Yeomen are on an' awa,
Our Yeomen lads are the bravest lads,
That e'er old Scotia sa'.

Success to Murray's band, brave boys,
Success to Murray's band,
There's ne'er a lad that fears a Rad.
That rides by Murray's hand.

Here's to our braw lads in wine, brave boys,
We'll drink their health in wine,
And here's to their wives an' sweethearts true,
That's to recruit our line.

Our Strifeling lads are men, brave boys,
Our Strifeling lads are men,
Their hearts and swords are metal true,
And that their faes shall ken.

They'll live or die with fame, brave boys,
They'll live or die with fame,
Until with the olive branch in hand,
Our Strifeling lads come hame.

They late were wast awa, brave boys,
Among the frost and sna',
But now they're come hame, here's to the
brave men,
The Colonel an' Officers a'.

* The above Song, which appeared in the Strifeling
paper of the 15th August 1820, is there said to be the pro-
duction of a private soldier, who captured, " O Kenmure is
on an' arva', Willie'." from Jacobite Relics, and by pulling
out a few names, and dibbling in others in their place, has
converted it into a Loyal Song. An exploit truly worthy of
a gallant Graham, and descendant of Wallace, " True
Achates."!!!

Our Yeomen are on an' awa.] They were not so fou that
they could not sit on a horse, some had even the magnani-
mity to mount with their brown coats on.

Out Yeomen lads are the bravest lads.] The Poet's mo-
desty prevents him from mentioning any of those heroic
 deeds which constitute bravery,—we are not so bashful.
The morning on which they were " on an' awa," a whole host
of crows appeared on the road, seemingly with an intent to
obstruct their passage,—the whole were put to flight, with
no other loss than one of the cavalry being dismounted,—no
prisoners were taken. Several hens, with broods of chickens,
were dispersed, and obliged to take shelter in barns and
byres. No less than a dozen of ducks were forced to betake
themselves to a neighbouring puddle, where the cavalry
thought it unnecessary to follow them.

Our Yeomen lads are the bravest lads,
That e'er old Scotia so'.

' There's ne'er a lad that fears a Rad.] After about a
score of madmen were taken prisoners by the Hussars, and
lodged in Strifeling Castle, our brave boys despised them,
and fear was banished from their breasts.

That's to recruit our line.] The wives and sweethearts,
equally brave as the husbands and lovers, have engaged,
should any of them skulk out of the way, to be " on an'
awa" in their place.

Our Strifeling lads are men brave boys.] Not old wives as
many people gave out, but really of the masculine gender !!!

Their hearts and swords are metal true.]    Not kail cas-
locks, as was most maliciously whispered.

They'll live or die with fame, brave boys.] The whole of
this stanza is happily incomprehensible.

They late were wast awa, brave boys.] And came back-
again, which is the sum and substance of the whole. Ex-
ploitf such as these are worthy of eternal remembrance.

Webster, Printer, Horse Wynd, Edinburgh.