A full and particular Account of a most horrid Murder, committed on the Body  of
young Woman, at Ballinlick, in the District of Strathbraan, and parish of Little
Dunkelk, supposed to be perpetrated by her Sweetheart, a young Man of the Name
of Gow, who has been since apprehended, and committed to Perth Jail. 

                     Perth, October 20,  1799.

DEAR   SIR,

I Am greatly concerned to inform you, that our fa-
mily have been much shocked, a the  relation of
most bloody and inhuman murder, that was commit-
ted on the body of a respectable young woman, a few
days ago, at Ballinlick, in the district of Strathbraan,
and parish of Little Dunkelk, about  fifteen miles from
this place. The deceased is the daughter of Farmer
Brown of Ballinlick.
                             

She had been for some time in terms of courtship
with a young man of the name of Gow, who resided
in that neighbourhood, and it is understood she had
made an appointment to meet with him on the even-
ing of Monday the 7th current.            

She went out of her father's house pretty late that
evening on a ptetence of discovering what the dog was
barking at, which, it is said, had been the agreed fig-
nal of meeting.                                                

As she did not return soon, her parents concluded
that she had gone over to a brother's house, who lived
in the neighbourhood, and therefore were under no
anxiety on accoont of her absence all night.

The next morning, however, to their equal sur-
prise and sorrow, they found her body in a well near
their own house, with marks of violence on her neck,
and belly, besides distinct  vestages of a person's teeth
on her right arm.

Gow being suspected of having committed this hor-
rid murder was apprehended on Thursday last, brought
to Perth, and committed to jail to stand his trial.



I Sincerely hope this melancholy affair will operate
as a proper warning to all young women; and tend to
make them conduct themselves in cases of courtship
with proper circumspection.



   But, alas! not with standing every effort of parents
to prevent it, young women too often err in this re-
spect, and disregard all admonitions whatever; which,
if paid attention to in time, would secure their future
happiness.

It is lamentable to observe the fatal consequences
that often follow, when a young woman has once fixed
her affection on the man with whom she would wish
to be happy, and will not follow the instructions of
her parents; she thinks every remark, made for her
interest, meditates against her happiness, and never
perceives, till too late, she has acted wrong.

The infidelity of young men is but too conspicuous
in many instances relative to promises of marriage;

and, though there are daily proofs of the evil effects
 of female credulity, yet, it still appears  evident that
it has very little influence upon the minds of the fair
sex in general.

It is to be hoped, that every young woman who
may hear of this cruel murder, will take care how
she cooducts herself during courtship; and however
strong her esteem and regard may be for the man she
has made choice of, not to make any appointments at
improper hours, nor unfrequented places; for it ap-
pears by this fatal catastrophe, and many others, that
the consequence often is the loss of Character, and,
alas! sometimes even Life. 

DESCRIPTION OF DAMIETTA,

Damietta, or Damiat, a sea port town of Egypt, first
built at the eastern mouth of the Nile, and called Tha-
miatis, under the government of the Lower Empire.
Damietta is larger, and not less agreeable, than Ro-
setto—it forms a semicircle on easterrn shore of the
Nile, two leagues and a half from its mouth.   It con-
tains about 80,ooo inhabitants, and has several squares,
bazars filled with merchandize, okals, khans, under
the porticos  of which are  Indian stuffs, silks from
Mount   Lebanon, sal   ammoniac, and quantites of 
rice, be speak it a commercial place.    The houses, es-
pecially near the river, are very high; most of them  
have pleasant saloons built on the terraces, from which,
charming places, open, to every wind, there is a view
of the grand lake lying on the other side, and of the
Nile, which traverses a rich country between them
both. Various grand mosques with high minarets, or-
nament the city.—The public baths, faced with mar-
ble, are similar to those of Grand Cairo.    Multitudes
of boats and small vessels incessantly fill the port of.
Damietta.    Some, named  sherm, serve to load and
unload the ships that anchor in the road; others are
coasting pilot boats.—There is a great trade between
this city and Syria, Cyprus, and  Marseilles.    The
rice mezolaout, the finest of Egypt, is cultivated in
the neighbouring plains, and its annual exportationa-
mounts to  between   200,000 and 300,000 pounds.
There are likewise cloths, lal-ammoniac, wheat, &c.
Laws, ruinous to the country, prohibit the exportation
of the latter; but they are evaded, and it is passed as
rice.    The Christians of Aleppo and Damascus, for
many ages established here, carry on the principa
trade; they are suffered to grow rich by Turkish in-
dolence, which contents it self with occasional extor-
tions.    Exportation of rice is forbidden, but by ar-
rangements advantageous to the receiver of thecustoms,
the people of Provence annually load several ships.
The thing most disadvantageous to the trade of Dami-
etta is its defective harbour; the road where vessels lie    
being totally exposed.

 Printed by Thomas Duncan, Glasgow.        



