THE

Charming Young Widow

I MEET IN THE TRAIN


I live in Falkirk and one morning last summer
A letter informed me my uncle was dead,
Anp also requested I'd come on to Glasgow,
As he left me a very large sum of money it said.
Of course I determined of making the journey
And to book myself by the First Class I was fain;
Tho I had gone Third I had never encountered
The charming young Widow I meet in the train

The Widow and I side by side sat together
The carriage containing ourselves and no more;
When silence was broken by my fair companion
Who enquired the time by the watch that I wore;
I of course satisfied her, and then conversation
Was freely indulged in by both, till my brain
Fairly reeled with excitement, I grew so enchanted
With the charming young Widow I met in the train

We became so familiar I ventured to ask her
How old was the child that she hell at her breast,
A sir, she responded, and into tears bursting,
Her infant still closer convulsively pressed,
When I think of my child I am well nigh distracted
Its father, my husband, oh my heart breaks with pain
She choking with sobs lean'd her head on my breast,
Did the charming young Widow I met in the train

By this time the train had arrived at the station
Within a few miles of the great one in town,
When, ray charmer exclaimed as she looked through
the Window,
Good gracious alive; why there goes Mr Brown,
He's my late husband's brother, dear sir would you
kindly
My lost beloved child for a moment sustain.
Of course I complied, then off on the platform
Stepped the charming young   Widow I met in the
train

Three minutes elapsed when the Guards whistle
sounded,
The train began moving—no Widow appeared,
I bawled out,   Stop, stop, but they paid no attention
With a snort and a jerk starting off as I feared.
In this horrid dilemma I sought for the hour—
But my watch !  ha ! where was it, where, where
was my chain ?
My purse too, my ticket, gold pencil-case all gone !
Oh ! that artful young Widow I met in the train.

While I was my loss thus so deeply bewailing,
The train again stopped and I tickets, please, heard
So I told the Collector, while dandling the infant,
The loss I'd sustained, but be doubted my word
He called more officials, a lot gathered round me,
Uncovered the child, oh! how shall I explain
For behold, 'twas no baby, 'twas only a dummy !
Oh! that crafty young Widow I met in the train.

Satisfied I'd been robbed, they allow'd my departure
The of course I had settle my fare the next day ;
And I now wish to counsel young men from country
Lest they should get served in a similar way ;
Beware of young Widows you meet on the Railway,
Who lean on your shoulder, whose tears fall like rain
Look out for your pockets—in case they resemble
The charming young Widow I met in the train