Flying Trapeze.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this very popular long can always be had
in the Poet's Box, 

AIR—Original.

Once I was happy, but now I'm forlorn,
Like an old coat that is tattered and torn,
Left on this wide world to fret and to mourn,
Betrayed by a maid in her teens.
The girl that I loved she was handsome,
I tried all I knew her to please,
But I could not please her one quarter so well
As that man upon the trapeze.

CHORUS.

He'd fly thro' the air with the greatest of ease—
A daring young man on the Hying trapeze—
His movements were graceful, all girls he could please,
And my love he purloined away.

This young man by name was Signor Bon Slang,
Tall, big, and handsome, as well made as Chang,
Where'er he appeared the hall loudly rang
With ovations from all people there.
He'd smile from the bar on the people below,
And one night he smiled on my love,
She winked back at him and she shouted " Bravo,"
As he hung by his nose up above.

Her father and mother were both on my side.
And very hard tried to make her my own bride,
Her father ho sighed, and her mother she cried,
To see her throw herself away.
'Twas all of no avail, she went there every night,
And would throw him bouquets on the stage,
That caused him to meet her, how he ran me down,
To tell you would take a whole page.

One night, as usual, I went to her home,
Found there her father and mother alone,
I asked for my love, and soon they made known
To my horror she'd run away.
She'd packed up her box and eloped in the night
With him with the greatest of ease,
From two stories high he had lowered her down
To the ground on his flying trapeze.

Some months after this I went to a hall,
Was greatly surprised to see on the wall
A bill in red letters, which did my heart gall,
That she was appearing with him.
He taught her gymnastics and dress'd her in tights,
To help him to live at his ease,
And made her assume a masculine name,
And now she goes on the trapeze.

CHORUS.

She floats thro' the air with the greatest of ease,
You'd think her a man on the flying trapeze,
She does all the work, while he takes his ease,
And that's what's become of my love.

Saturday, July 11,  1874.