PAT  M'GUIRE

Ye Muses nine with me combine, assist my slender quill,
And my weary notions at every line     fill,
My name is Pat M'Guire how can I coneeal,
By the cruelties of Mary Keys I lie in Lifford Jail.

My parents loved me tenderly, and very well it's known,
Gave me an education fit for the Church of Rome ;
They thought for to have comfort with me in future days,
But now I lie in irons by cruel Mary Keys.

When I came from  the village ray parents for to see,
She did her whole endeavour to prove my destiny,
She says young Pat M'Guire come join in wedlocks band,
You must agree and wed with me or quit your native land.

If I were to wed with you my parents would me blame,
Besides it would be a disgrace and not to be ordained,
For in this holy order I mean to lead my life,
So Mary dear don't persevere for I'll never wed a wife.

It was on a Sunday morning before the sun did rise,
The cavalry surrounded me and to my great surprise
The Captain says M' Guire get up and do not fail,
For I must do my duty—you are bound for Lifford Jail.

When I read my committal a letter I did send,
Straight unto Captain Hamilton—I know he'd me befriend,
When he received this letter an answer he sent down,
That he would bail  M'Guire  should it cost one thousand
pounds.

When my aged father this answer did receive.
He says my child and loving son don't be the least dismayed,
For I have money plenty, and God will be your friend,
On Shell that noble counsellor, your life you may depend.

Now to conclude and make an end and let the world see,
In spite of all her interest the jury set me free;
They freed me out of Lifford Jail with honour I go home,
And hopes to be a member into the Church of Rome.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale
Stationer, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate,) Glas-
gow. Upwards of 5,000 sorts always on hand;
also, a great variety of Picture-Books, Song-Books,
Histories, &c. Shops and Hawkers supplied on
Liberal Terms.

Hand-Bills, Circulars, Invoices, Business and Fancy
Cards, Large Posting Bills, Society Articles, Pamph-
lets, &  Letter-Press Printing of every description,
neatly and expeditiously executed on Moderate Terms.

Printing Office, 28 Nelson Street and 56 Trongate.