THE Feeing Time.

AIR—Craigmaddy Mnir.

My friend and I struck frae Milgye,
From Glasgow town we took our way 
When all along the road was strung
With lads and bonnie lassies gay.
When drawing nigh one did I spy,
She was walking slowly by hersel'
For fear the rain her claes would spoil,
I did display my umbrell.

Where are ye gaun, my bonnie lass,
How far, then, are you bound this way 
To Glasgow town, Sir, I am bound.
For this, you know, is feeing day.        
Says he, the day seems wet to be,
Altho' the morning did look fine;
Smiling she said, I am afraid,
I'll no be in again feeing time.

O, cheer your heart, my bonnie lass,
We'll hae good weather by and by,
And don't be sad when with a lad,
A roving baker frae Milgye.
And if you will accept a gill,
Of whisky, brandy rum or wine,
We'll hae a gill, and then we will,
Be in Glasgow by the feeing time.

She gave consent and in we went,
To an ale- house that was by the way; 
Glass after glass, round it did pass,
Till we baith forgot it was feeing day.
The clock struck three, she smiled on me,
Says she, young lad the fault is thine,
For night is on, and I'm from home,
And besides I've lost my feeing day.

Its lass, don't grieve, for while I live,
I ne'er intend for to harm you;
For marriage I will surely try,
For baker lads they aye prove true.
I'm too young to wed a man,
Besides my mother has nane but me,
But I'll comply and ne'er deny,
And I'll wed before I take a fee.

We spent that night in merriment,
So we got married the next day ;
And aye since syne my love does say,
I'm glad I lost my feeing day.
My love and I we do agree,
I ne'er do think that she will repine,
For every day she smiles and says,
I'm glad I lost my feeing time.

PRINTED and Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Whole-
sale Stationer, &c., 11 King Street, (City,)
Glasgow. Upwards of 5000 sorts always on
hand; also, a great variety of Picture-Books,
Song Books, Histories, &c., &c. Shops and
Hawkers supplied on Liberal Terms.

Soiree, Concert, and Ball Cards, Large
Posting and Hand Bills, Invoice Tops, Circulars,
Business and Fancy Cards, Society Articles,
Pamphlets, and every description of Letterpress
Printing done cheaply, neatly and expeditiously,
Lithographing, Bookbinding, &c., &c. 