THE    LOSS

OF THE

PRINCESS ALICE.

Tune :—Sailor's Grave.
How  many thousands have found a grave

eneath the rolling wave,
And day by   day the list  we swell
Another    loss       we have to tell;

Above   five   hundred precious  lives,
Women and children men and wives,
In the    midst of joy and pleasures'  games,
They     all were   drowned    in the river Thames.

eneath the   Thames their bodies lie,
Both old and young were doom'd to die,
The Steamer sank beneath the wave.
And hundreds found a watery grave,
To Sheerness they had been that day,
Eight hundred souls how sad to say,
Returning home with hearts so light,
Through the darkness of the night.
They met a vessel on the way,
At the close of that eventful day,
The "Princess Alice " she was run down,
Opposite to Woolwich town.
Eight hundred souls were in the waves,
Struggling against a watery grave,
The old and young both were there,
Feeble age and youth so fair.
Women with children on their breast,
In death's embrace they sank to rest,
Many a man how sad to say,
Lost all he loved that fatal day.
The screams were heard on Woolwich shore,
Of those who sank to rise no more,
Down in the Thames' cold watery bed,
Above five hundred were lying dead.
Just before, they were full of life,
The husband sitting beside his wife,
Their little children by their side,
Now all were drown'd beneath the tide.
They had no time for the humble prayer,
Destruction soon was reigning there,
The waters caught each fleeting breath,
One minute in life, the next in death.
Their pleasure came to a fearful end,
No-one on earth relief could send.
Their time was come for them to die,
God bless them all now dead they lie.
What must the feeling of relations be.
Waiting and expecting friends to see,
Little thinking they were drowned,
Or that such a fearful death they'd found. 
We all shall think of them I'm sure,
And prayfor   thembe they rich or poor,
History will record the names,
Of those who were drown'd in the riverThames.

   THE    PARROT

AND THE

 OLD ARM CHAIR.

PARODY ON THE " OLD ARM CHAIR."

     My girl invited me one Sunday home to tea,

    Her Pa and Ma had gone out for the day,

     Not feeling disinclined I said I didn't mind,

    With the girl I loved to pass the time away,

    So on Sunday changed my clothes, and then says I,

               here goes,

    And straightway to her house I did repair,

     While looking for a seat I heard a voice repeat,

    You can sit down in the Old Arm Chair.

     I heard you kiss her and heard you chaff,
    I heard you tickle her and make her laugh,
    I heard what you said I positively swear,

I see what you was doing in the Old Arm Chair.

    T was a parrot that I heard a very knowing bird,

    And soon my girl she took the bird away

     I then began to laugh, the girl began to chff,

     And said it's been a bother all the day,

     But as I sit at my ease, with my girl upon my knees,

    I got so wild I could have torn my hair,

    You had better let me be, for I can plainly see,

    What you're doing in the Old Arm Chair.

     Scarce knowing what to do I said to darling Lee,
     For two pins I would take the parrot's life,
     Oh, don't, dear John, said she, if you so cruel be,
     I shall never be your darling wife;

 I heard just what she said, and she gently laid her
head
    Upon my arm, and lightly smoothed my hair,

When in the old man popp'd and caught me'on the

hop,
With his daughter in the Old Arm Chair.

    Now very soon I found myself upon the ground,
And darling Loo was stretched upon the floor,
    And I found to my surprise he'd blackened both my
               eyes,

     And swore I shouldn't come there any more;

When her mother heard of this she said you naught;
              Miss,

    The parrot told us all I do declare,
    You shouldn't let him in then Polly  said with a grin,
    I see you in the Old Arm Chair.