A Full and particular account of the trials before the Circuit
Court of Justiciary,. which was opened at Glasgow on Satur-
day the 8th of September 1798, with the sentence of the
different criminals.

Also, an account of the trial and sentence of Robertson and
Murray, who have received sentence to be hanged at Stirling
on Friday the 12th of October next.

On Saturday the 8th day of September 1798,
the Circuit Court of Justiciary, was opened
at Glasgow by the Honourable the Lords Esk-
grove and Methven. The Court met about half
after ten o'clock, and after a suitable prayer by
the Reverend Mr. Lochart one of the Ministers
of Glasgow, and the Sheriffs of Lanark, Ren-
frew, and Dumbarton Shires ; being called upon
and appearing, the court being duly constitute
There was a weaver in the Shaws, and a Calico
printer about Barhead called upon three times
in court and over the Stairhead, and sailing to
appear the sentence of outlawery was pronoun-
ced against them and their bond of cautionary
declared to be forfeited, &c.

Afterwards Athol Moon corporal in the Scots
Royals, was put to the barr, and the Jury being
sworn in, his Indictment was read by the clerk
of Court. Accusing him of the murder of James
Gray weaver in Calton of Glasgow, on the night
of the 27th of February last, and being asked
by the court if he was guilty or not he pleaded
not guilty the court then passed an interlocutor
finding the libel relevent to infer the pains of
law, and remitted the pannel to the knowledge
of an assize, but allowed  him to prove all facts
that might tend to exculpate or alleviate his
crime.

The court  then.proceeded to the examination
of witnesses, which continued till about two o'-
clock afternoon, when the Advocate depute for
the crown summed up the evidence, as did Mr.
Dickson Advocate for the pannel; Lord Efk-
grove gave a charge to the Jury, when they
were ordered to enclose and return their verdict
on Monday at nine o'clock to which time the
court adjourned.

On Monday the court met according to ad-
journment when Athol Moon was brought to
the bar, and the Jury being called over, return-
ed their verdict finding by a plurality, the said
Athol Moon guilty of Culpable Homocide, on
which he received sentence, To be detained in
Glasgow' jail for the space of three months, and
thereafter to be set at liberty in order to join his
regiment.

Next was brought to the bar, William Dron,
Indicted and accused of breaking a Bleachfield
near Bridgetown in the neighbourhood of Glas-
gow of a great Quantity of various articles, and
at  last of being detected in the act, and the In-
dictment being read over he pleaded not guilty,
but befere the court proceeded, he gave in a pe-
tition to their Lordships, praying, that as his
character was broke in this country, that he
might be admitted to banishment from Scotland
for such a time and under such restrictions as
their Lordships should think proper, to which

the Advocate depute consented, and in the mean
time, he was sent back to prison.

Afterwards Solomon Williams was brought
to the bar, accused of the murder of James Som-
mervill cow-feeder in Glasgow and the Indict-
ment being read over, he pleaded not guilty,
but their Lordships passed an interlocutor, find-
ing the libel relevent to infer the pains of law,
but allowing the pannel to prove all facts in the
exculpation, or alleviation of his crime; The
court then proceeded to the examination of wit-
nesses; The proof being closed, the Advocate
depute for the crown summed up the evidence,
as did Mr. Millar for the pannel, when Lord.
Methven gave a charge to the Jury, when they
were ordered to be enclosed, and to return their
verdict as soon as they were ready, and the court
would continue sitting till they returned.

In the mean time William Dron was brought
to the bar, and received sentence to be confined
in Glasgow Jail until the 2Oth of October next
and then to be set at liberty in order to banish.
himself from Scotland for the space of fourteen,
years, with certification if he returns during
that period, he is to be transmitted to Glasgow,
and publickly whipped through the streets of
that city the next market day, and this so often
as he returns, unless he be in his Majesty's Service-

The Jury having returned, gave in their ver-
dict against Solomon Williams all in one voice
finding him guilty of Culpable Homicide; 
which he received sentence to be confined in
Glasgow Jail for the space of three months, and
then to be set at liberty on his finding security
for his good behaviour for the space of two years
under the penalty of 300 merks Scots.
This end the Eyre in Glasgow.

The Circuit Court of Justiciary was opened
at Stirling by Lord Methven on Tuesday the
4th of September 1798, when they proceeded
to the trial of Joice Robertson and one Murray,
accused of being art and part in various E&S of
theft and robberies, and being habite asd repute
thieves and robbers. Their trial continued till
about five o'clock at night, when the Jury were
inclosed and ordered to return their verdict on.
Wednesday at nine o'clock to which time the
court adjourned.

The court met on Wednesday morning ac-
cording to appointment, when Robertson and
Murray were put to the bar, the Jury gave in
their verdict finding both the pannels guilty of
the crimes charged, Lord Methven then passed
sentence, ordering them both to be hanged at
the common place of execution in Stirling OB Fri-
day the l2th of October next.