Lowlands   Low.

PRICE ONE PENNY.

Copies of this popular production can always
be obtained at the POET'S Box,

TUNE—Original.

I have a ship in the North Country,
And she goes by the name of the Golden Vanity.
I am afraid she will be taken by some Spanish Galleon,
As she sails in the Lowlands Low.

Then up starts our little Cabin boy,             [destroy,"
Saying, " Master, what will you give me if I do them
" I'll give you gold and you shall have my daughter also,
If you sink them in the Lowlands Low."

Undaunted and bold away he jumped in,
The boy bent his breast and most gallantly did swim,
He swam till he came to this Spanish Galleon,
As she lay in the Lowlands Low.

The boy he had an auger, to bore holes  two at once,
When some were playing cards, and some were play-
ing dice,
He let in the water and it dazzled in their eyes.
And he sunk them in the Lowland- Low.

The boy he bent his breast and away he swam.
Saying, "Master, take me up or I shall be slain.
For I have effected their total overthrow,
And have sunk them in the Lowlands Low."

"I'll not take you up," the Master he cried,
" I'll not  take you  up," the Master replied.-- [the tide,
" I will kill you, I will shoot you, I will send you with
I will sink you in the Lowlands Low."

The boy he swan, all by the starboard side,
Until his strength it failed him, then bitterly he cried,
Saying, " Messmates take me up. for I surely shall be
slain,
For I have sunk them in the Lowlands Low."

His Messmates took him up,  but on the deck he died,
O then they sewed him up in an old cow's hide,
And they threw him overboard to go with the tide,
And they sunk him in the Lowlands Low.

P R I N T I N G.

 takes this opportunity; of informing his num-
erous Patrons and the Public that his Prices are lower, than
those of any Printing Office in Glasgow, and that every
variety of job Printing is executed with neatness and des-
patch. Cheapness, Correctness, Neatness and Punctu-
ality are leading features in the accomplishing of all
orders with which he may be favoured. BUSINESS CARDS,
CIRCULARS and HANDBILLS; INVOICE TOPS, LETTER
HEADINGS, and MEMORANDA ; CONcERT CARDS, ASSEMBLY
CARDS, and PROGRAMMES : EXCURSION, FETE, and AL,
FRESCO CARDS of every description ; ADVERTISING POS-
TERS and WINDOW  BILLS for Thespian or Musica1 Enter-
tainments ; all Kinds of SOCIETY WOrK ; and, indeed,
every species of JOB PRINTING is done with the utmost 
despatch. Parties without manuscript will receive every
assistance in drawing out  the form of  their orders.
Orders, by letter, from the country, will receive im-
mediate attention, and will be sent off. by Rail, Steamer,
'Bus, or Post, as may be most convenient.

Saturday, April 28, 1877.