DONNELLY & COOPER.

Come all you true-born Irishmen wherever ye be,
I pray you give ottention; anh listen unto me;
It's of as true a story as ever you did hear,
About Donnelly and Cooper that fought at Kildare.

'Twas on the 3rd of June, my boys the challenge was sent o'er,
From Britunnia to old Granua to raise her sons once more,
To renew their satisfaction, and their credit to recall;
So they were in distraction since bold Donelly conquered all.

When Granua read the challenge, and received it with a smile,
You had better haste into Kildare, my well-beloved child,
It's there you will reign victorious, as you have always done before,
And your deeds will shine most glorious all around Hiberna's shore.

The challenge was accepted, and those noble lads did prepare,
To meet with Captain Kelly on the Curragh of Kildare,
The Englishmen bet ten to one that day against poor Dan,
But such odds as these would never dismay the blood of Irishman.

When these two bully champions they stripped in the ring,
They faced each other manfully, and to work they did begin,
From six till nine they sparred on, till Danny knocked him down,
Well done, my child, Granua smiled, this is ten thousand pounds.

The second round that Cooper fought he knocked down Donnelly,
But Dan had steel likewise true game, and rose most manfully,
Eight active then was Cooper and knocked Donnelly down once more
The English they all cried out, the battle you may give o'er.

The cheering of those English peers did make the vallys sound,
Whilst their English champion kept prancing on the ground,
Full ten to one they freely bet, on the ground whereon they stand,
That their brave hero would soon deceive their boasting Irishman,

Long life to Miss Kelly, she recorded on the plain,
She boldly stepped into the ring, saying, Dan, what do you mean ?
Saying, Dan, my boy, what do you mean, Hibernia's son, says she,
My whole estate I've bet on you, brave Donnelly.

When Donnelly received the fall after the second round,
He spoke to Captain Keliy, as ho lay on the ground,
Saying, do not fear, for I'm not beat, although I got two falls,
I'll let them know, before I go, I'll make them pay for all.

I'm not afraid, brave Donnelly, Miss Kelly she did say,
For I have bet my coach and four that you may gain the day;
You are a true born Irishman, the gentry well do know,
And on the plains of sweet Kildare this day their valour show.

Donnelly rose up again, and meeting with great might,
For to surprise the nobles all he continued for to fight,
Cooper stood on his own defence, exertion proved in vain,
He then received a temple blow which reeled him on the plain,

Ye sons of proud Britannia, your boasting now give o'er,
Since by our hero Donnelly, your hero is no more;
In eleven rounds he got nine knocks down, besides broke his jawbone
ghake hands, says she, brave Donnelly, the battle Is our own.

SILVER
BELLS.

In the hush of eventide,
Sitting by my cottage door,
Fancy softly seems to glide
Backward to the days of yore.
And I hear in changeful swells
Sweetest tones of melody,
'Tis the sound of silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Silver bells, silver bells,
Silver bells of memory ;
Silver bells, silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Many faces have grown old,
Many forms been laid to rest,
Underneath the churchyard mould,
Those I loved the most and best,
Since I've heard the distant swells
Floating on the winds to me,
Low and sweet the silver bells,
Silver bells of memory.

Now I seem to live once more,
All the dear, delightful past,
E'er the shadows long before
Sunny skies had overcast.
When we wandered in the dells,
Lingered in the flowery lea,
List'ning to the silver bells,
Now the bells of memory.

LARBOARD

WATCH.

At dreary midnight's cheerless hour,
Deserted e'en by Cynthia's beam,
When tempests beat, and torrents roar,
And twinkling stars no longer gleam,
The weary sailor spent with toil,
Clings firmly to the weather shrouds,
And still the lengthened hours beguile,
Sings as he views the gathering clouds,
Larboard watch, ahoy!

But who can speak the joy he feels,
While o'er the foam his vessel reels,
And his tired eyelids slumbering fall,
He rouses at the welcome call
Of Larboard watch, ahoy!

With anxious care he eyes each wave,
That swelling threatens to o'er whelm,
And, his storm-beaten bark to save,
Directs with skill the faithful helm;
With joy he drinks the cheering grog,
'Mid storms that bellow loud and hoarse,
With joy he heaves the reeling log,
And marks the lee way and the course,
Lardboard watch ahoy!

JAMES KAY, GLASGOW.