The TRUE-LOVER'S

Farewell to Ireland!

T was of a summer's evening, as I went out to walk,
I heard two charming lovers, together they did talk,
Says one unto the other I'm going to cross the main,
Mary be of good cheer till I return again.

Johnny dearest Johnny how can you from me part,
Its two long years and better since you have won my heart,
If you do cross the raging sea and leave me here behind,
My parents they would me degrade and say you proved unkind.    

The Queen she wants for men my love and intend to join,
If ever I return again in splendour you will shine.
In hopes to gain promotion a soldier I will go,
And boldly stand with sword in hand to face the daring foe.

Johnny now if you do go a soldier for to be,
I really think my dearest dear your face I'll never see,
You will be sent to India, where many fell before;
My darling stay at home with me upon the Irish shore.

Now to the East Indies my course I mean to steer,
To face the blacks and negrees no danger do I fear,
When I am in a foreign land each handsome maid I see,
Will remind me of the days I spent with you sweet gramachree.

Johnny do not leave me this damsel then replied,
You know you often told me you would make me your bride,
Johnny I love you dear you're my only joy,
Content yourself and stay at home with me my darling boy.

My dear right well you know at home I cannot stay,
The crops in Ireland are so bad the rent we cannot pay;
Therefore a soldier I must go in foreign lands to roam,
I will think of you my hearts delight until I return home.

O Johnny do not go away this fair maid then did cry,
I'll get money plenty our wants for to supply,
We will join our hands in wedlock bands if you love me sincere,
And well sail off to America no danger shall we fear.

Johnny then consented to what the maid did say,
And they were quickly married as I heard next day,
They're now bound for America the ship is going to sail,
May providence protect them with a sweet pleasant gale.

Sold by JAMES LINDSAY, Printer and Wholesale Sta-
tioner, &c., 9 King Street, (off Trongate,) Glasgow.
Upwards of 5000 sorts always on hand; also, a great
variety of Picture-Books, Song-Books, Histories, &c.
Shops and Hawkers supplied on liberal Terms.