THE ITALIN GIRL.

OR THE BRIGAND'S DAGHTER

COPIES OF THIS CAN ALWAYS BE HAD AT THE POET'S BOX,

182 OVERGATE, Dundee.

There's a lovely little madin that I ever shall adore,
In Italy, that bright and sunny land,
My life would be a plesure and I would ask for not-
hing more.
If she would only share her heart and hand,
Though her father he's a Brigand on the the loney
mountain path,
And with him on the mountain she does dwell,
There is not a couting beauty in all Europe can
surpass,
This dear Italian girl I love so well,

CHORUS.

Though her father he's a Brigand on the mountain.
She's as gentle as the daughters of an Earl.
Although she set me free my heart shall ever be,
A captive to this dear Italian girl,

Whilst roming the lovely mountain 'nath the clear
and sunny skics;
A land of starligt Brigand's bold and strong,
They captured me all helplessly with a bandage oe'r
my eyes,
And cative I quickly bore along,
£500. aransom they demanded me to pay,
But this I was not rich enough to give,
Had it not been for the pleading of this little mou-
ntain maid.
They would not have hermitted to live,

They put me in a dungeon where I thought that  I
should die,
And whilst the Brigand chief and all his band,
Where plundring poor travellers this weary girl came
nigh,
And by my side with beaming eyes did stand,
She burst my bands asunder bade me rise and puickly
fly,
And for her fathers sake she gave me gold.
While the tears of love and pity were glistring in
her eyes,
I pressed her for to fly with me to be my darling
bride.

For her love for me was very planly shown,
But still she was duty bound to her outlawed fathers
side,
And then to England I returned alone.
But I cannot stay for ever on this bright and happy
iles,
To Italy I am goning to return,
To see if I can see her face if its only for a  while
This dear Italian girl I love so well.

Songs sent to any part of the country on receipt of
postage stamps for the number required. along with an
extra stamp to ensure a free return per post, Immediat
despatch may be relied upon!