Nell Flaherty's Drake,

My song  it is Nell, quite candid I tell,

And I live near Coothill I will never deny,

I had a large drake, the truth for to speak,

That my grandmother left me  and she going to die.

He was  wholesome  and  sound he'd  weigh twenty pound,

The universe round I'd rove for his sake;

Bad wind to the robber, be him drunk or sober,

That murdered Nell Flaherty's beautiful Drake.

His neck it was green, most rare to be seen,

He was  fit for a Queen of the highest degree;

His  body was white, it would you delight,

He was  plump, fat and heavy and brisk as a bee.

My dear little fellow, his legs they were yellow,

He'd fly like a swallow or swim like a hake;

[   ] some wicked savage to grease his white cabbage,

has murdered Nell Flaherty's beautiful Drake.

May his pig never grant , may his cat  never hunt,

That a ghost may him haunt in the dark of  the night,

May his hen never lay  may his ass never  bray,

May his goat fly away  like an old paper kite:

That the []ree  and the fle s the wretch ever tease,

May the piercing north-brease make him tremble and shake:

May a four-year old  bug build a nest in his lug,       

Of the monster  that murdered Nell Flaherty's Drake.

May his cock  never crow— may his  bellows  ne'er blow,

And for bed ,pot and  poe may be never have  none;

May his cradle not rock,may his box have no lock,

May his wife have no [  ]ock to shade her back-bone,

May his  cock never quack, may his goose turn black,

And pull down his turf with his long yellow beak,

May  the scurvy and  [ ] never part from the breech,

Of the monster that murdered  Nell Flaharty's Drake.

May his pipe never smoke may his tea-pot  be broke,

and  add  to the joke may his  tea-ketle ne'er boil,

May be poo'ey the bed the  hour he is dead,

May he always be fed on  lobaconse and fish oil.

May he swell with the gout, may his grindars fall out.

May he roar, bawl and shout with the horrid tooth-ache,'

May his temples wear horns, and all his toes sorns,

The monster that murdered Nell Flaherty a Drake.

May his spade never dig  may his sow never pig,

May each nit in his  wig be as large as  a snail,

May his door have no latch may his  house have  so thatch.

May his turkey not hatch, may the rats eat his meal.

May every old fairy from Cork to Dunleary.

Dip his song and airy in some pond or lake,

Where the eel and the trout dine on his snout.

Of the monster that murdered  Nell Flaherty's Drake.

May his  dog  yel and growl with both hunger and cold,

May the wife always scold till his brains go astray,

May the curse of each  hag that  e'er carried a bag,

May light on  the vag till his head turn grey.

May monkies still bite  him, mad dogs affright him,

And every  one  slight  him, asleep or awake,

May the  waess ]still gnaw him, and jack-daws shaw him,

The monster that murdered Nell Flaherty's Drake.

The only good  news  I have diffuse,

That Peter Hughes and  Feter M'Cabe,

And big nose Bob Hanson, and buck tooth Norhammon,

Each man has a grandson of my beautiful Drake.

My bird he has dozens of both nephews and cousins,

And one I must get or  my heart it will break,

To Keep my mind easy, or else  I'll run crazy,

This ends the whole story of Nell Flaherty's Drake.