 Execution.

Account of the Execution of ANDREW STEWART and
EDWARD KELLY, who suffered in Glasgow on Wed-
nesday morning, 1st November, 1826, for Street Robbery
with an account of their Behaviour in confinement and on
the Scaffold

GLASGOW, 1st November, 1826,

This morning the above two unfortunate young men forfeited their lives for the 
following daring  crimes :-                       

Andrew Stewart, for violently assaulting, along with some others, Filippo Testti,
Looking glass manfacture in  Gallowgate, and after striking him on the head till
he was insensible, robbing him of a gold watch, a gold chain, three gold seals, a gold
key, and several other articles ; also £211s. in cash.

Edward Kelly, for roboing James Fleming, in a closs in Bridgegate, on the 31st
March last, of £108 16s.; White, who was to have suffered along with him, has
since been respited.

Stewart, being a Protestant,  was attended  during his confinement, by several of
the Ministers of that persuasion, and by the Chaplain of the jail, who communicat-
ed every religious instruction of which he stood in need, and to whom he paid the
utmost Attention; he appeared completely resigned to his fate, and behaved with
the utmost decorum  since the awful sentence was passed upon  him. He always said
he had no intention of committing the robbery , and that  he fell in with the rest of
the  gang promiscuously and  meeting with the foreigner, some alteration took
place, which ended in him Knocking him down.

Kelly belonged to the Roman Catholic  church, and was assisted in his devotional 
exercises by the Rev. Mr. Murdoch, the Minister of that persuasion in this  place,
to whom he listened with calmness, cheerfulness, and a desire to  improve his mind.
No opportunity was omitted by the Rev.  Gentleman in giving his attemdance to the
unfortunate youth, and soothing him with every consolation which his his awful state
required. which greatly comforted him in his lonely cell.                                 

The two unfortunate young men (after the services in the Hall were finished with 
regard to Stewart),proceeded to the scaffold, attended  by their various Ministers,
where after spending a few minutes in prayer. they gave the signal, and were in-
-stantly launched into eternity.  they seemed to struggle little.  They were both
decently dressed.  the crowds assembled on such occasions are not so numerous  
since the alteration of the hour of execution.

Stewart was about 24 years of age, and  by trade a  weaver; he belongs to Bridge-
town , his parents are still living.  It does not appear that he had been formerly 
addicted to crime.  He was unmarried.

Kelly was about 21 years of age, and followed, for some time, the profession of a 
carter. He belongs to the Bridgegate, and his parents and three brothers are left
tomourn the fate of this unfortunate young man , his mother in particular, feels
with poignant grief, the loss of a son whom she loved most tenderly.

The above awful example should  prove a warning to all, especially to those who
are running  with heedless steps in the paths of crlme. Out of all the examples that
have taken place for a number of years past, not one crime can be attributed to need,
or want of employment, but arises from sytem of dishonesty instilled into them
by keeping bad company, and idle and dissipated habits Numerous are the houses
where the misguided youth of the city  receive shelter, and are kept hid from the
view of their  parents, and sent forth  to commit crimes of various description, no
matter at what expense.  It is calculated that there are nearly 5000 people in the
city and suburbs, who were they called upon to give an account how they gain a
livelihood, could give no satisfactory answer. It is to be hoped that all of them will
take warning, and shun those practices, which, if preseverd in, will end in a scene 
similar to that witnessed to day.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.