Tammie the Tollman.

This funny, humorous song, is from the pen of Peter M'Len-

nan, a young man who is getting  rapidly on in the musical world.

The Poet is now in full possession of five of his productions, one
of which has attained the second edition, so highly is it prized by
the lovers of the muse. The  names of his songs are—the Cath-
cart Courtship; Home's Braes; Larrie's Wedding, second edi-
tion; Scotland's I'leatherbell, and Tammic the tollman. These
songs arc all admired; and long before the Poet was honoured
with a copy of  Tammie the  tollman, hundreds were daily  inquiring
for it at the Box. Those who heard  t sung in some of the Sa-
loons, have offered  the Poet as high as 6d. for a copy Now that
the Poet's Royal Yankees Press has not hold of it,all can now be
charmed with it for the small price of one halfpenny. The song

is founded on facts. The toll stamus about 8 miles north-east of

Glasgow,as compact a little dwelling as you have ever seen.Lads

and lasses make it a house of call in their rural walks,and Tam-    

mie they all find to be one of the right sort.

Air—Organg.
There is a wee house stands at the Bridgend,

A canty wee fire, I'm sure ye may ken,
For a' the folk round about, callants an' men,

Comes in to see  Tammie the tollman.


Hawkers and bakers, and gentlemen braw,

Weavers and writers, that kens a' the law;
Milkmen and drainers, and  carters  and  a',

Comes in to  see Tammie the tollman.



Wise, daft, and silly, comes in to see Tam,
Wee Johnnie, Duag Willie, and a' sie a clan;

An' a' the droll names that l hae in my sang,
Comes in to see Tammie the tollman .



There stories are tellt on some droll condition,
About  catching the thief, or some on suspicion;

About rising the dead, or the Great Exhibition, 

When in beside Tammie the tollman.


They dance, or they whistle, they do what they please,

When twa'll get the damboard down on their knees;
They curse, an' they swear, an' they tell  mighty lees,

       When in beside Tammie the tollman .



Then the cards are laid down on a stool in the toll,

     An' some o' them cursos, and swears by their soul;

But Tammie bawls out, ye may suck my hole,
For ye'll have to play lair wl' the tollman.



He has a wee mouse-trap  made  round like a creel, 

When the mouse cats the chcese, the door fa's at 

their  heel;
For to catch the wee devils for stealing the meal,

For they'll ruin puir Tammie the tollman.
And when ye gang into his wee house sae braw,

Ye'll see a wee salt-box stuck up on the wa';
A bed and a desk, and five stools in a raw,

A' in beside Tammie the tollman.
Lucifer boxes stuck up in a hole,

And below his wee bed there lies his fire coal;
A bible and sang-book for the good o' his soul,

For the good o' wee Tammie the tollman.
And Tammie's  contented at night wi' the flaes,

At the foot o' his bed twa wee kists wi' his claes,
A poker and tangs, and they baith want the taes,

For to furnish out Tammie the tollman.
He has a wee watch, but he hasna a clock,

Twa bottles, twa glasses, to treat unco folk;
A mcal basket, twa jugs, and I think that's his stock,

He's a wealthy chap Tammie the tollman.

His house is seven feet,tak it throgh and through,

And when there a'  gathered  I'm sure its gey fu';
If ye winna belive that my story is true,

Gie a ca' to wee Tammie the tollman.
He plays at  his flute as happy's a laird,

A looking-glass' and razor to shave  aff his beard,

Or some afr his whickers, for weel he can spared,

       He's a hairy man, Tammie the tollman.
A' ye young  lasses that's hard up for men,
Ca' at the wee house that stands at Brigend;                                     

If one winna do, I'm sure ye'll get ten,

Just ask for wee Tammie the tollman,                                              

Ye'll get sawers or mawers, or them hauds  the plough,                              
              Shoemakers, stonenappers, and a' sic a crew;
       Nailers and dealers, or tailors to sew,
             And that ends wee Tammie the tollman.                                        