The Rambler from Clair.

The first of my courtship that ever was known,
I straight took my way from the county Tyrone ;
Where mang  pretty fair maids they used me well there,
They Called me the stranger or Rambler from Clair.

It's when I set out for the town of Tralee,
Where I fell a courting young Sally Magee,
I first gained her favour and theu left her there,
And now they're in search of the Rambler from Clair.

It's there I enlisted in the town of Formoy,
But having many masters I could not comply;
My mind being bound for liberty, I vow and declare,
Deserted next morning was the Rambler from Clair.

I took up my hat and I made a low bow,
In hopes that the Colonel would pardon me now ;
But the pardon he gave me was hard and severe,
They flogged and confined the Rambler from Clair.

My old aged mother got a sudden surprise.
The cries of my brothers they rented the skies ;
Brave boys says my father, to your arms repair,
Bring back my darling the Rambler from Clair.

A way then they marched in a harmonious band,
Their guns o er their shoulders they were ten thousand strong;
The fire then  commenced, the hero's were there,
They broke the jail open, freed the Rambler from Clair.

Away then they marched in a harmonious band,
With their guns o'er their shoulders, &, their hats in their hand;
At the very first Tavern they drank hearty there,
And they made full commander of the Rambler from Clair.

Away then they marched to the Barony's Fort,
And some of our hero's they welcomed them there ;
The fire then commenced the smoke darkened the air,
They fought well commanded by the Rambler from Clair.

It's now I've got the title of a united man,
To stop in this country is more than I can,
It's off to America I must now repair,
Farewell to my friends and the county Kildare.

Farewell to my comrades wherever they be;
Likewise my old sweetheart young Sally Magee;
For the ship it is ready, tho wind it blows fair,
He's gone Joy go with him the Rambler from Clair.

Robert M'Intosh, Printer,  [ ] street  [  ]   