A LIST

Of all the Prisoners who are to stand their Trials be-
fore the High Court of Justiciary next Week.

Just published, a correct List of the 64 prisoners who
are to stand their Trials before the High Court of
Justiciary during the course of next week ; giving
the names and different crimes for which they are
charged, and the particular day on which they are
to be tried; taken from the best authority.

MONDAY AND TUESDAY, 7th and 8th January.

The Cases are served for the 7th, and such as are not
then overtaken, will be continued till the 8th.

William Cook, vending forged notes. James Thomson or Smart,
theft  from  lockfast places. Samuel Donaldson, theft. Margaret
Farquhar and Margaret Hunter or M'Greger, theft by housebreak-
ing, Barbara  Lawrie, or Campbell, or Walker, theft. Fergeus
M'Pherson and Hector Ross, theft by housebreaking. Ann
Maclaren, theft; and Peter White, reset of theft. Peter Galbraith,
theft by.housebreaking; and Mary Mathieson or Galbraith, reset
of theft, Alexander Pettigrew, culpable homicide. Margaret Gray
or Markie, theft; Mary Little or Stevenson, reset of theft. Peter
Littler, theft from lockfast places, breach of trust, and embeazle-
ment. Eliza Hildyard or Barker, theft by housebreaking. James
M'Donald, theft, Mary Calvert, theft. Ana Lawoon or Gale,
theft.

WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, 9th and 10th January,

The Cases are served for the 9ch, and such as are not
then overtaken will be continued till the 10th.

Alexander Weir, theft by housebreaking, &c. Duncan M'Millan,
rape, or assault to  ravish. Alexander Bryce, Alexander Agnew
Bryce, and William Clark, falsehood, fraud, and wilful imposition.
Thomas Yule, theft. James Hosie, theft. Margaret M'Leod or
Seoul, theft. Elizabeth Dyer or Duff, vending base coin, John
Bain, uttering forged notes: Daniel Brown, contravention of Act
5 Geo. IV. c. 84. Janet  Munro. theft. John Lees, culpable homic
cide- James Wemyss, culpable homicide. Helen Fraser and Elisa-
beth or Betty Houston, theft.

FRIDAY  AND SATURDAY, 11 th and 12th.January.

The Cases are served for the llth,. and such as are not
then overtaken will be continued till the 12th.

Robert Logan, Thomas Greig, William Fulton, Robert Mellrose,
and Archibald Bryson, contravention of Act 9  Geo. 4, c. 69. John
Thomson, assault. Alison Walker or Henry, Janet Fergusen or
Charteris, and John Henry, theft from lockfast places. Thomas
Neil, Thomas Henry, and Robert Henry or Hendry, violating
sepulchres. Donald Crawford and Margaret Smith, incest, Henry
Letham, Alexander Stevenson, James Muir, and Marion Gunn, or
Fernie, or Hooker, assault, William Low, John Gran, Euphemi'a
Hislop, and John Wilkie, assault. James Innes and David
Thomson, robbery, Andrew Hastie, theft, John Smith, alias
Paterson, forgery.

*For fugitation.

†This case  was certified from the  late Autumn Circuit held at
Dumfries.

Forbes & Co. Printers,171, Cowgate.