ROBBERY

OF THE

Mail Coach.

The whole particulars of that daring
Robbery, which was committed on
the Stirling Mail, on Saturday last
with an account of the apprehension

of one of the  Robbers,

On Seturday evening, 18th Dec. the Stirling Mail   Coach
was robbed to  a  very extensive amount,  while .changing
horses at the village of Kirkliston.    A gig. with two men in
it had been   been observed   to  follow the  Coach   a considerable
way before its ariivaj at   Kirkliston, where both stopped  at
the Same inn.    The  men came out of the gig. and after one
of them had given & boy fourpance   to   hold the  reins of the
horse, they qoth wen( into the house,   while the driver and
guard were either inside the house or  attending to the  Post
Office duties,    A pussenger  in the Coach was   observed by
a women at this time  deseend   into   the boot, which   the
guard had left unlocked ; and this person did   not afterwards
make his appearance    The   man   who   gave    the boy the
fourpence also disappeared,   while   his companion mounted
the gig, and drove of rapidly,    It was then   discovered   that
a bag containing  three   parcels of  Bank notes,   which had
been  forwarded    by   the   ageut   of    the   Leith Bank   at
Callender, of the Leith Bank at   Stirling,  and   of the Com-
mercial Bank  at Crief. and amounting  in   all to about ten
thousand pounds, was abstracted.     It is next to  self-evident
that the robbery was contrived and executed  by the passen-
ger and the two   persons   in    the gig,   and that they again
met together on the road leading to the Queensferry, as three
men of the same deseription did arrive that  night at New-
mills,   whence two   men proceeded to Edinburgh in a post
chain, and   the other   went westward.    It remains to be
noticed   that early on   Saturday,   a   man of the name of
Mvrray,  who  has   been hanging loose upon   the town   for
some time whose history is unknuwn., hired  a gig from
Smith's   Stables in   Rose   Street,  and  this person    late on
Saturday evening called on Mr Smith, and after communi.-
ciiting to him  that  the horse and gig had been upset in a
ditch  on  the road from'Kilkliston  to Queensfetry, desired
to   know what it would cost to  repair   the damage.         Mr
Smith estimated the damage at L48, which Murray paid him
is ten pound band notes of the Bank of Scotland.    The horse
and  gig   were actually   found  in  the  ditch,  and  from   the.
marks of feet about the place,   it was evident that   three men
.had been engaged to extricate them.

It has been ascertained that Murray spent the evening
along with others in a noted Brothel at the foot of North
St David Street, kept by a man who has been taken into
custody ; and through him the police came to learn that
Murray did not leove Edinburgh till 11 o'clock on Sunday
morning, when he set off in a post.chaise for .London by the
eastern road. Sergeant Eewis Stewart of the police, accom-
panied by a clerk of one of the banks, was immediately dis-
patched in that direction after him , while messengors and
officer,. were sent off in parsuit in almost every other direc-
tion. A letter was received at the police establishment yes-
terday from Stewart, intimating that a person answering
Murray's description bad been overtaken and apprehended
at Therik in Yorkshire, where, being in an infirm state of
health, he had stopped to take some repose ; and that, L60
in Scotch notes were found upon him. He was expected to.
arrive last  night in custody.  The guard of the coach is in
confinement.                        