MELANCHOLY

SUICIDE,

This morning a case of the most distressing nature has transpired ;
tears have been shed by many, whose eyes were strangers to such a
sensation. On hearing of the case we repaired to the spot, and have
collected the following particulars: —

Miss Ann Bennitt, a fair-haired young woman, 17 years of age,
daughter of Mrs Bennitt, a widow, residing in George's Street, was last
seen about 7, P.M., yesterday ; for some time previous she appeared very
depressed in spirits. On her mother frequently questioning her as to
her uneasiness, and in the most affectionate manner conjuring her to
unbosom herself, added, " Ann, your case surely informs me of every
circumstance." All exertions used by her mother proved quite una-
vailing : she became more and more reserved, and often insinuated she
was tired of life, and would be glad of death to put an end to her misery.
But it has often been observed, that when one seeks the "Grim King
of Terrors" he is not to be found; and that the death-seeker must
either live on or commit suicide.

About half-past seven yesterday she suddenly disappeared, and was
never again seen in life ; and being missed for more time than usual, her
mother,"fearful of the cause, entered her bed room, to discover, if possi-
ble, what had caused her long absence, when, to her grief, as she entered
the private 'apartment of her daughter, she found her suspended by her
silken scarf, a lifeless corpse. She had committed the act with such
determination as to baffle, and wholly prevent any interposition, until
found "by her bereaved mother, suspended as above described, cold and
stiff in death.

The occasion which led to the melancholy catastrophe, are, as far
as can be ascertained, as follows :—

The deceased, Ann Bennitt, had been courted by a young man, Mr
E. S------, a commercial gentleman in this city.    The  passion   appeared
to be mutual, and the light-hearted girl fondly anticipated she was soon
to be joined in the " holy bands of wedlock," by marrying the man of
her choice, her playmate almost from her birth, and her first love.
she had placed her affections on a villain, who defloured her, and after-
wards led another to the "alter of hymen," and that one was her rival.
The blow was too much for her to endure ; she drooped, and ultimately
put an end to her existence as before described.

This is by no means a solitary instance; almost every newspaper
contains cases'of a similar nature. They nearly all emanate from the
same cause. Mutual attachment is the parent of love ; seduction often
usurps the place of marriage ; and the deserted fair one who has forfei-
ted her character, her honor, aed her reputation, seeks for shelter in a
dishonored and premature grave.

The following Letter was found among some papers in her desk,
after death :

MADAM,—In consequence of some circumstanees I do not wish here
to explain, I'beg to state that our intimacy has already gone too far. I
regret the urgent necessity I have for breaking up at once all further
correspondence with you. You may soon select a partner much berrer
suited and one worthier of you, than,               Yours respectfully,
						E. S.

Another Letter, written in her own hand, addressed to her Mother,
			reads thus:

DEAR MOTHER,—The die is cast! The grave yearns to receive,
your unworthy and unfortunate child. I have been seduced and dis-
honored. My conduct has at once expelled me from the society of those
I loved and I now seek an asylum in the grave. I fear death, and the
dread of what may follow after; but the dread of being pointed at with
the finger of scorn Is to me ten times more terrible than anything I can
reasonably expect from the just and humane judge of mankind.  For-
give my seducer, and on no account ever reproach him with being the
cause of my death. I hope no one will ever be so unfeeling as to cast
any  aspersion  on you for what has happened; and will add, as a
futher -dying dying request, that my remains may be laid in the sam
grave  where my dear sister now lies, and as he who hurried on my pre-
mature dissolution does frequently pass a remembrance of his sacred
vows so often pledged may produce on his mind a sad retrospection of
the past That we may meet in happier climes where "sorrow is a
stranger",   is the parting prayer of,           Your  Unfortunate Child,           
                                                                    ANN  BENNITT.

R. REYNOLDS, Printer, &c 489  Lawnmarket.