The HISTORY and Comical LIFE of

Jean Murphy.

Shewing the enterprising scenes she came through when commanding a
party of Rebels in Ireland: how she travelled Scotland in man's apparel,
as a packman, and smuggling at the same time, then turned lamp-lighter
in this City, when she proposed marriage with. Water Jenny, her landlady
on purpose to get some money she had, the wedding day was set, Sca-
vengers and lamplighters with their wives and children were invited to
the dinner ; after getting tipsey, a bloody battle ensued,when heads, legs,
and arms were broken, wives and beams squalling, and in the midst of
the uproar she made her escape, leaving Jenny a widow of her money.

THE  heroine of the following
memoirs, was born a few miles
from  Limerick,  in   Ireland.     Her
parents were in middling good cir-
cumstances, which enabled them to
bestow  ample   education   on   her.
When she left school she could not
settle herself to domestic employ-
ment;  being robust and rambling,
she took   great pleasure  in doing
outwork along with her father and
brothers, and very often would go
along  with the horse and cart in
the mornings to Limerick  market
to dispose of the  produce of their
small farm, on   which   occasions,
when the mornings were cold ', she
would  have her brother's hat and
top-coat, which made her look more
like a boy than a  girl.    She con-
tinued in this manner till  the  last
rebellion, in  which   we learn  she
took an active part, dressing herself
in man's attire, and  changing her
name  to  Patrick  Murphy,   joined
the rebels, and after a great many
skirmishes  and    defeats   with   the
royalists,  she  was   taken   prisoner
and confined for about three weeks,
but she soon contrived to make her
escape,  at a time  when  they were
marching   the  prisoners from   one
place to another.    She then joined
a second time time rebels,  and  took
the command of a party, and soon
after received wounds in two places,
one on  the   thigh  with   a  musket
bull, and the oilier with   a  bayonet
on the left cheek, which left a deep
scar, and with her tall stature, being
about 5 feet 9 inches high gave her
a masculine  appearance,  so  that it
was impossible   for any one  to dis--
cover  her   sex.      After   her   affairs
were entirely ruined in Ireland',  she
for    self-preservation,   shipped    for
Scotland, and  settled  in Glasgow,
when; she met with some acquaint-
ances who had  left Ireland for the
same  reason, but  not one of them
Understood . that she was a woman,
having still on man's apparel.     She
travelled Scotland with a pack-box,
dealling in jewellery, hard-ware, &c.
and at times engaged  with smug-
gling parties both in the North and
West Highlands of Scotland ; after
continuing for a number of years
in this manner,  she settled in the
metropolis, and got the birth of a
lamplighter,   which   situation   she
behaved  herself very expertly and
honestly, (having never defrauded
her employers of one gill of oil.)

The house in which she lodged
helonged  to an  old  woman called
Water  Jenny,   well   known in the
City, who by her frugality and in-
dustry had saved  about. one hund-
red pounds, which   Murphy ascer-
taining,  immediately   laid schemes
to get the sum in   her own posses-
sion ; she could line none to answer
so well as to pretend love to the
old   wife,  which she did so effec-
tually, that in a few days she con-
sented to the match.    The bills for
the money was delivered to Mur-
phy, to purchase cloathes for them,
and  pay all necessary  expences;
the Priest was sent for, and guests
invited   to   the   wedding   dinner,
consisting of lamplighters, scavan-
gers, &c. with some of  Jenny's
relations.   The day arrived and
the Company  all  met, Jannet as
blythe and cheery as she had been
a Lass of sixteen,  though she was
upwards of sixty-eight,  with  only
one tooth, and one of her legs as
thick as her waist below the hump
on her back, while the other was
as small as her wrist; the priest pro-
posed   to commence the ceremony,
but Murphy opposed it till  after
dinner.    After the priest said grace
they    attacked    the    dishes   with
tork  and   knife,   and soon   cleared
the table;  then Whisky came ga.
lore, which soon makes an Irishman
hamorsome and merry,  songs and
jokes make the time pass on quick,
and Murphy retired, without being
noticed,   preparing    le   make  her
escape along with Blarney M'Shane,
to whom she discovered her sex and
intentions.     The peace and  happi-
ness   of   the    company   was    soon
broken,   by a hint  Dennis  gave  to
M'Ginnes    the    scavenger,   about
living with his supposed wife without
the sanction at the church, M'Gin-
nes instead of  making  an  answer,
lent him a stroke on the head  with
his shilelall, or rather a broom shift,
then   a   general   battle   began,   in
which   wives  and  children   took a
share, the mutches were soon below
the table, hair torn out, heads, arms
and legs broken, and in the midst
of the affray Murphy made her e-
lopement along  with Blarney, to
enjoy  the   produce  of Jenny's in-
dustry.    Murphy in a  few  days
sent a letter to Jenny, couched in
a  most affectionate   manner, dis-
covering her sex, which nigh hand
put Jenny out of her senses.

PRICE ONE PENNY.