              TRIAL

         and Sentence.


An account of the trial and Sentence
of William Titting or Knox, and
John M'Kenzie or M'Kinlay, who are
to be executed at Edinburgh, on the
15th day of December next, for break-
ing into a house in Charlotte Square.
                                                                     
This day, Tuesday, 9th November 1824, came on before the
High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of William Tutton, alias
William Titton,  alias  John   Kuox, and John M'Kenzie
M'Kinlay, alias  John M'Kinlay,  accused of the crimes of
Housebreaking and Theft ; by breaking into the house of 
Captain John Forbes Drummond of  Hawthornden, R. N.
and stealing therefrom a great quantity of articles. The pri-
soners pleaded Guilty to the charges, and were found guilty
on their own confession.
	
Eighteen witnesses were summoned for the Crown, but in
consequence of the prisoners pleading guilty, they were none
of them examined.                                                          . .

The house into which they broke is situated in Charlotte
Square, west end of the New Town, Edinburgh. It hap-
pened early on the morning of the 6th of July last. They
forced open one of the windows of the sunk story, by, which
they entered, and then broke open a chest of drawers, chests,
and a wardrobe, and emptied them of their contents, which
of 3 two lib parcels of Tea, a Ladies' satin pelisses and three
silk gowns, different colours, a satin gown, fur tippet, twelve
yards silk, white satin gown, Lady's tartan cloak, three razors
an opera-glass, silver thimble, gold locket, beads, lace frill,
hair frou'ler, plated tea spoon, and a great variety of other
articles. Information was given next morning of the rob-
bery at the police-office, but previous to which, the prisoners.
through the vigilance of the police-officers, were apprehend-
ed and lodged safely in custody. Both prisoners along with
a omman, and the stolen goods were taken into custody
going down the old Fish Market Close.           

His Lordship before proceeding to pass sentence on the
prisoners gave them a most suitable admonition, advising
them to prepare for that awful end to which they had
brought themselves, as they had no hopes of mercy been
extended to them on this side of the grave. His Lordship
sentenced them to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day the 15th day of December 1824, The woman received
sentence of transportation for life.

The prisoners behaved in the court with propriety, one of
them, a delicate looking young man, about 19 years of age,
seemed to be more daunted then the other, who is of a stout
make, and about thirty years of age.

Printed for the Booksellers.    Price one penny.