A WARNING

To the public; being a lamenable instance
of gronudless Suspicion.

An account of the melancholy death of Mary
 M'Intyre, a young woman of respectable character
who being innocently accused of finding and
keeping up four £5 notes belonging to her mas-
ter a Manufacturer in Paisley. Giving an ac-
count in the manner in which he threatened her
with Bridewell, and giving her over to the Super-
tendent of Police; which acted so powerfully on
her mind, aided with all the horrors of an injured
character—she went and hanged herself.

With a copy of a letter which was found in the
room with her directed to her master.

ON the evening of Friday last, (22d February, 1822,)
Manufacturer in Paisley, having received four L5. notes
in payment of an account, deposited the same in one of his
breeches pockets. On Saturday mid-day when intending to
use the money, he was astonished to find that it was missing.
He passed over that day in searching his own house not being
certain but that he had laid it somewhere and forgot it. On
the Monday he made the town-crier proclaim it as money lost,
offering a reward of Five Pounds for its recovery; but as no
notice was got, he on the Tuesday made a general charge on
some female workers whom he employs in his house; and af-
terwards selecting one, made a direct charge on her of having
stolen the mony. His threats only produced strong assertion of
her innocence; and his suspiction remaining, he caused Mr
Brown, captain of she police to make her prisner, expecting that
his presance might have more effect than his own in making her
produce the mony. But, as she still denied having any knowledge
of the transaction she was dragged away from his house,and told
that she going to Bridewell. This operated so strongly on her
feelings that she promised, (though still asserting her innocence,
to allow her master to lift a legacy of £.10. which was due in
a few days, rather than affront her so—seeing her marriage was
only delayed till this money was due. On this condition she
was allowed her liberty, but the affront was more than she could
bear—her character broken—the means;of accomplishing her
marriage taken from her,—she went sraight home, and having
secured the door, suspended herself  from the ceiling by the silk
handkerchief which she was wearing On the arrival of her
female companion, who occupied the room with her, no ad-
mittance could be had; she searched for her till late then after-
wards procured another bed. On the morning she caused a per-
son to enter by the, window, when the corpse was discovered
Every humane mind must deplore the sad catastrophe.

in the room was found a  letter directed to her master. of
which the following is a Copy:—
' Dear Master,

 "When you read this, poor Mary will be
beyond the reach of a Bridewell, and freed from the charge of
theft, when you read this, I will be immortal, I freely forgive you
and hope God will, no more from                                  

                                          your unfortunate,

Mary M'Intyre.'

This young woman was only 20 years of age, and 
 a native of  Argyleshire, was come of respectable parents, tho
poor. -She left them when she was about 14, and went to pais-
ley, where she was loved for strict virtue and  honesty. Her
employer thought by frightening  her, as she was of a simple
nature, that she would inform if she new any thing of it.