COPY OF

A LETTER

FROM MICHAEL M' CABE.

Just published, an interesting Letter from Michael
M'Cabe, now lying under Sentence of Death,
on the Gaud, in the Calton Jail, addressed to
Rebecca Hudson, Bell's Wynd, his Sweetheart,

which is published here by his own desire.



EDINBURGH, 4th Feb. 1833.
CONDEMNED CELL, CALTON JAIL
"To REBECCA HUDSON,   '

' Bell's Wynd.             

" MY DEAR   REBECCA,

" No doubt but you would feel

truly sorry when you heard of my awful sentence, and I am
sure that you will have been watching every opportunity to
hear of any reprive having been sent to me by our Gracious
Sovereign ; but alas Reba, no such happy and welcome tid-
ings have as yet been transmitted to me. Every moment ap-
pears 28 an hour to me, fondly cherishing, as I do, the hope
that a reprive, or ar lease a respite, will yet be forthcoming.
But even when I reflect on our separation for life, death would
be still more welcome. In sorrow and bitterness do I repent
of my ill spent life, now that I see my days drawing nigh a
close. O that I had abided to the instructions of my youth—
that I had abstained from idleness and evil company—minded
the Sabbath day—that I had attended closely to my business,
theu might I at this moment of painful suffering, been as
happy as any of the innocent companions of my childish days,
I have now only to warn you and other associates in my
guilt, to abstain from bad company—to form a new erra in
your life,—to Remember the Sabbath day, and Keep it holy,
—to dash the venemous glass of ardent spirits from your
mouths, as you would do the most naucious drug, and then
your suffering on the bed on death, will be very different from
mine. These are the causes of a premature end, which the
fruits of life spent like ours, in dissipation, villany, and crime.
Every attention is paid to me here, the Jailors are very kind
aad' I am regularly attended by a clergyman, by whose assi-
duity and feeling-heartedness, I am led to turn my wandering
thoughts on the means of expiation, at that Tribunal where
the judgment of men has no controul. From the liberal ed.
ucation which I received from charitable institutions in Ed-
inburgh, I am, thank God, enable to read the Bible, which
has hitherto been too carelessly thrown aside. In it I feel
 unbounded comfort, and I would strongly exhort you to read
it, for in it you will find more comfort, than any gratification
which your wicked companions can suggest. An advice of
this kind, coming from a preacher on the streets may have
little or no impression, but I trust and hope, that coming
from one of your late companions in guilt, it will have an ef-
fectual, and everlasting impression, and than I will have done
one good turn ; I will then be the cause of the saving of a
soul. Dear Rebecca, if you could get some printer to revise
this, and publish it, it may be the means of doing good, for
who can hear the groans of a eulprit, whose honors are so near
and bat will feel affected, and take his sayings seriously to
heart. O that it may make a lasting impression upon the
hearts of many, and turn them from the broad road of misery
destruction, and death. I had a visit from my sister, but
both her feelings and mine, were so overpowered, that I sunk
into a state of insensibility. May God bless her and all my
relations, and may they nor yov, nor any of my late com-
panions sorry in my death.—I must now bid you an eternal
adieu,

      MICIAEL M'CABE.