Coronation of His Majesty

Which took place at London on Thursday last, the 19th July, 1821,
with an account of the non-admittance of the Queen.


London, July 19th,1822.—This morning, so early as two o'clock, the streets resounded
With the rattling of carriages, and at three the platform leading from Westminister Hall to
the Abbey was thrown open to public view.    The outside of the platform was occupied
by masses of troops, and disclosed the interior, like the celebrated Trojan horse,  filled with
Soldiers, lying down, except a few to prevent the intrusion of the populace.

About half-past five o'clock, her Majesty in her state carriage, drawn by 6 horses, en-
tered St. James' Park by Constitution Hall Gate. Her Majesty was not observed  until she
entered the Park, when she was loudly cheered, and the general exclamation was, " God-
bless your Majesty! stick up for your rights, we will protect you !". The soldiers at the
different posts  which She passed, presented  arms to her. Her Majesty was dressed in white,
and had on her head a eap or bandeau, with a large plume of white ostrich feathers, and
appeared  in full health. About half-past six o'clock, the Lord  Mayor and other Members
of the City, proceeded for Westminster Hall. Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Glou-
cester was the first of the Royal Family who arrived. About half-past, shouts were  heard
from without, and a great bustle among the guards around the entrance, and cries of  "Shut
the gates! shut the gates, were distinctly heard, and as readily obeyed." This announced
the approach of her Majesty, and the military formed in double line across the platform,
to prevent the entry of her Majesty. Her Majesty then drove round to the west front of
the Abbey, and the carriage drew up, when Lord Hood alighted to search for some ingress
to the Hall. Having found a gate in the rear of the Champion's stable, he returned, and
her Majesty, with her attendants, alighted.                      

 On reaching the gate the royal party were informed that this was no thoroughfare ; they
then proceeded to another passage which was open for persons with Peer's tickets. Here
an officer of the guard presented  himself, and half-drawing his sword,asked their authority
to pass, when Lord Hood presented a ticket, and they were allowed to pass the platform.
They then proceeded to the House of Lords, to try to enter the Hall; but were debarred
all ingress. They tried the passage leading into the Abbey from Poet's corner, and were
informed that none but persons with a regular ticket could be admitted. Lord Hood asked
whether they were aware that it was the Queen who sought admittance ? and her Majesty
twice repeated, " I am your Queen! I am your Queen !" The persons repeated their orders
were peremptory. Her Majesty then returned with her attendants  to her  carriage and they
drove off, amidst enthnusiastic cheers. The reception which her Majesty met with from
people of all ranks was most flattering, and shows the high estimation in which she is held.
  His Majesty entered the Hall about ten o'clock, accompanied by the Great Officers of
State, the Band playing God save the King. A gun was then fired, announcing his Majesty
having taken his seat. The regalia having been brought by the Lord Chancellor, the De-
puty Lord Chamberlain took up the several swords, sceptres, the orb, and crown, placing
them in the hands of those who were to carry them. Here follows the names of the differ-
ent articles and their bearers, with a long list of Dukes, Marquisses, Lords and Bishops,
who attended this earthly procession, which would only wear out the patience of any ra-
tional man to peruse.                                                                                             
  The whole having arrived, the Archbishop stood at the altar, having St. Edward's crown
before him, took the same into his hands, and consecrated and blessed it with the prayer,
" O God, who crownest thy faithful servants with mercy,"' &c. The Archbishop then took
the crown and placed it on the head of his Majesty, while the people, with loud and repeat-
ed shouts, cried " God save the King !" the trumpets sounding, the drums beating, and
the Tower and Park guns firing by signal. The acclamation ceasing, the Bishop pronounc-
ed the exhortation, " Be strong and of a good courage," &c. The choirs then sung the
following anthem, " The King shall rejoice in thy strength," &c. As soon as the  King
was crowned, the Peers put on their coronets the Bishops their caps, and the Kings of
Arms their crowns.
The eastern parts of London were quite deserted, and a stream of people was pouring to-
wards Westminster and the Parks. It was delightful to witness the peace and joy which
beamed on all around. Mr Sadler and a friend  ascended in a magnificent balloon from the
Green Park, It ascended perpendicnlarly, with the rapidity of a rocket, and had a grand
effect. All things went off quietly, and there were but few accidents, considering the vast
number of spectators assembled.                                      

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.