Horrible
MURDER.

A true account of that horrible murder
that was committed at Kilsyth 12 miles
from Glasgow on Saturday, 6th April,
1822; when a young man in a cruel man-
ner murdered his own father, by stabbing
him in the belly with a large knife. 

ON Saturday the 6th of April, 1822, a barbarous murder,
was committed at Kilsyth, 12, miles from Glasgow.    A
quarrel took place between a father and son, under the follow-
ing Circumstance :—

The father, coming into the house, found his son lying
drunk, and was angry with him. Some words ensued, but the
father, aware of the vindictive temper of his son when in that
state, left him and went out a littie distance from the house.
The son soon after got up, and seizing a large knife, which
he was accustomed in his drunken fits to wield, rushed out, and.
going straight forward to the place where his father stood, seiz-
ed him by the throat with one hand, while he made three deep
stabs into his parent's bowels with the knife which he held in
the other hand. The poor man who had some distance to walk,
reached his house with difficulty, literally carrying in hands part
of his bowels, which had obtruded through the wounds.

The cruel monster fled,but had the savage hardihood to re-
turn on Sunday, go into the house; and survey, the dead body of
his murdered father, without apparent emotion .

The murderer has for the moment escaped, but the officers of
juitice are in search of him.

Drunknness is a vice that has very fatal effects on the mind,
the body, and the fortune of the person who is devoted to it,
The sober man, by the strength of reason, may keep under and
subdue every vice or folly to which he is most inclined; But
drunkenness, makes every latent seed spring up in the soul, and
show itself; it gives fury to the passions, and force to those ob-
jects which are apt to produce them.    It often turns the good-
natured man into an idiot, and the choleric into an assassin.    It
gives bitterness to resentment, it makes vanity insupportable
and displays every little spot ofthe soul in it's utmost deformity .
Nor does this vice only betray the hidden faults, of a man, and
shew them in the most odious colours, but often occasions faults
of the most horrid nature, of which the above is a most striking
instance.

Thus does drunkenness act in direct contradiction to reason,
whose business it is to clear the mind of every vice which has
crept into it, and to gaurd against all the approaches of any that
endeavours to make its entrance.     But besides these ill effects
which this vice produces in the person who is actually under ti's ,
dominion, it has also a bad influence on the mind, as it insensi-
bly weakens the understanding, impairs the memory, and makes
those faults habituel which are produced by frequent excesses.