SECOND EDITION.

AND COW'S ACCOUNT TO BAILIE HAIG  ON THE

SCAFFOLD.

EXECUTION



Full, true and Correct   Account of the Execu-
tion of James Gow, shoemaker, residing in Bull's
Turnpike Stair,  High Street,  and  Thomas  Be-
veridge,   blacksmith,    residing   in   Little   Jack's
Close,   Canongate, who  was executed this day.
the 2d of December, for the cruel and  bloody
murder of their wives ; also an account of the
way in which those diabolical murderers com-
mitted the attrocious deeds.

                                    

This day, Thomas Beveridge, blacksmith, lately residing
in Little Jack's Close, Canongate and James Cow, shoe
maker, lately residing in Bull's Turnpike Stair, High Street,
underwent the extreme penalty of the law at the head of
Libberton's Wynd, this morning, for the cruel and unnatural
murder of their wives.

As usual, on such occasions, a great concourse of people
were assembled, as great if not greater than on any other
several occasions, probably from the novelty to two men being
both brought to the scaffold at one time for the taking the
lives of their wives.

Beveridge, who our readers  will  recollect, was convinced
of having maltreated his wife, Janet with a poker, a shovel
and a knife, in   their  own house, on Sunday evening   the
2d of October,  which  caused  her death the same evening
This unfortunate culprit  has  left  three  children   to mourn
his uutimely fate ; the eldest  is a girl only about 7 years of
age. Since his condemnation he has been extremely penitent,
after he received sentence he   was taken   to the  Lock up
House, to wait the  arrival of the  caravan, to convey them
to the Jail.

Beveridge was convicted on the evidence of a number of
witnesses, and James Gray, who is a decent looking trade-
man, was charged with prevarication, and attempting to con
ceal the truth, as an example to others, the Lord Justice
Clerk, after admonishing Gray, sentenced him to 3 callender
months in Jail,

Since the confinement of those unfortunate culprit, their
behaviour has been  becoming to  their awful and miserable
situation, in which they are  placed, through  the most cra[ ]
and bad conduct towards their wives.

Gow, after he received his sentence, and in the Lock up
House, he addressed the turnkey, the game is up, all is over,
after a short time he stated to his fellow prisoners that his
wife has put on a iron ring on his leg, but he put a gold
ring on her finger.

James Gow was a native of Dalkeith,, but has resided in Edinbargh a
number of years. Thomas Beveridge is a  native of Kirkcaldy. and gaafe
to Edinburgh in search of work some years ago,

About a quarter past  eight the mournful procession moved towards the
Head of Libberton's Wynd. the culprits  appeared to be very penitent.  Be-
veridge appeared  to be very  weak,  but both with a firm step, they  were
both attended to the place of execution by the Clergymen.     Both joined
prayar most servently,and singed a psalm, both acknowledged the justness
of their sentence.Gow  step'd forward   to   Bailie  Haig, and said   none
could regret his awful situation more than he, if wives  were  to keep home
and make the houses  of their  husbands  more agreeable, such  things never
could occur ;  he hoped his  honour would make this  public, as  a caution
all; the sure way to make a good  husband, is so be a good  wife.     He died
in peace with   all   men, and  both acknowledged the again justness  of their
sentence, and died  in peace with all men.

After being tied up with the halter about their neck, and night caps put
over their eyes the unhappy men shook hands, Gow exclamed and with
an audible voice, Lord have mercy on our souls, Lord receive our soul.
the handkerchief was then drops, and they were launched into eternity.
neither struggled much.

FORBES & Co. Printers, 171, Cowgate                            

