ANCIENT PROPHECY.

A most Wonderful and true Prophecy, which was found in an iron
box in a Subterraneous Cavern, near the memorable field of Cul-
loden, and was written three hundred years ago, and contains
many Discoveries of what is to take place in various kingdoms
of the World betwixt the years 1822 and 1826.

This cavern was situated in the lands of a very rich Gentleman of the name of Gordon,
in the neighbourhood of the famous field of Culloden, who took a notion to embellish the
interior of the cavern, and for that means employed some masons to raise a pillar for the
support of a hanging rock that projected out of the roof, and while at this work, one of
the masons took notice of a large square stone that seemed to be transfixed between two
rocks; this curiosity led him to try to get the stone out, which he soon accomplished, but
was much surprised to find underneath it a small iron box, about eighteen inches long.—
The man thinking that the box contained treasure, was very much agitated, but on break-
ing it open, found that it contained nothing but a large roll of parchment, all in writing;
but as none of  the men were able to read the writing, it was conveyed to Mr Gordon, who
is an excellent scholar, and with the assistance of two or three Clergymen to whom he ex-
hibited the roll, and who were conversant in the ancient languages, it was found to be a
prophecy, and wrote about three hundred years ago. It explains every thing just as they
came to pass in the sister kingdom for the last two hundred years ; it gives a true defini-
tion of the rise and fall of Buonaparte, from his first entering the French Convention, till
his total overthrow at Waterloo, and from that to his exile. It says, that when two crowned
heads from the east, and one from the north shall join, there shall be a total overthrow of
the Turkish Empire. It also speaks of the Queen of England's trial and acquittal, and
what is wonderful, it tells the exact number of days it would last, 45 days, which was the
exact number it did last. It also says, that between the years 1821 and 1826, that there
will be great blood and slaughter in the sister kingdom ; but when Ireland shall see three
eagles coming together in a line from the south, they may expect their troubles to be at
an end, and the reign of peace and prosperity shall again revisit that long divided king-
dom. It also speaks of the National Debt of Britain, which it says will increase to such a
degree, from the people not being able to pay the taxes, owing to the depressed state of
trade, and the agricultural interest being completely ruined, that it will be unable to fulfil
its engagements, and a national bankruptcy will take place in the year 1823; after that
period a new system of finance will be introduced, and Britain will again recover from her
embarrassments,  and shine forth among the nations of Europe with increased lustre.

There is a good deal of the writing defaced; but it is. supposed by its being in the Celtic
language, that it was wrote by some great prophet, when the Celtics inhabited the king-
dom of Scotland.

There being a great part of the prophecy defaced, in order to fill up the paper, we sub-
join the following curious prayer, which was uttered by an old carter, who was permitted
to lodge in a barn belonging to Mr Gregg (father of the Rev. Mr Gregg, late of St Alban's)
who overheard him the next morning to pray in the following manner :—" Thank God,
I have slept soundly to night, and so this morning am pure and well. Thank God, my ass.
is well, and has a good lock of hay, her crust of bread, and drank half a pail of water.—
God bless us both to-day, and give me strength to walk afoot, that I may'nt be forced to
get up and ride the poor beast, for she has luggage enough already. God Almighty send
that folks may want my wares, and that somebody may take a liking to my ballads; and
them as can afford it may give me some victuals and drink that I may not give my ballads
to servants for it, when their masters and mistresses dont know on't. . God Almighty lead
us through green lanes, where my poor ass may light on good cropping without running
into other folks's grass or corn ; and that poor thing she mayn't tumble down and hurt
herself, and break my wares. And God Almighty incline somebody to give me a night's
lodging; and that I may have a dry barn, and some barley straw too (an't please God), for
I grown old now, and a hard bed is worse than it used to be. But I dont  distrust God,
Almighty's care, for he never let me want in my life, and so his great  and holy name be'
praised now and evermore. Amen."                 

This eccentric character dealt in earthen ware, and also sold ballads and histories among
the country people.                                                    '                 

Printed for J. Johnstone.



