DREADFUL

WARNING
To PARENTS.

WE find that the solemn vows and promises are of so great weight, and strictly
binding by the severe notice God has taken of those that have violated
them, in punishing the dishonour done to his name, by various and fearful judgments;
and the dismal death this young woman died in consequence of breaking her solemn
vow to the man who adored her, furnishes another striking example of the heinousness
of the crime.

It appears that James Thomson, son of a gentieman in Stirling, had but a made-
rate fortune, but was a very accomplished and handsome young man—that, some
time ago, while riding towards this town, he, by accident, saw the lovely Miss
Stewart, standing near her father's house, and instantly fell in love with her.

The beautiful maid on perceiving his eyes were earnestly fixed on her blushed, and
modestly retired, not less captivated with his elegant person and manly looks. They
spoke not to each other, yet both felt, at the same instant, the powerful effects of mu-
tual love. He rode on to dispatch his business, and as soon as he had finished it, his
whole thoughts were ingrossed by what means he would devise to get himself intro-
duced to the innocent maid who fully possessed his heart unknown to herself.

But love, who was not idle, soon gave him an opportunity to exert his skill; for
Miss Stewart was in as bad a condition as himself, and took sick a few days after she
saw him, to the great grief of her parents, who intended to have had her soon marri-
ed to a rich neighbouring gentleman named Pearson, Physicians were called in, but
could do nothing for her, and she daily grew worse. At length young Thomson,
hearing how things were going on, lost no time in disguising himself like a medical
gentleman, rode off to her father's house, and offered his services. He was courte-
ously received, and speedily introduced to his darling's presence; and, as he was
seated, he requested every person to leave the room ; in order that he might converse
slowly with her, as she was very low, and, if possible, to find out her disordeir and
prescribe accordingly which was immediately complied with.

The love-sick maid had no sooner fixed her eyes on him than she knew him, and
fetching a deep sigh, she fainted away ! But he revived her with some cordials that
he brought; so that recovering her senses, her blushes overcame her paleness, and
made a very visible alteration in her countenance for the better. In short, the lovers
soon understood each other so well, that she rapidly recovered, to the great joy of
her grieved parents, who did not know how to recompence this wonderful doctor suf-
ficiently, having no notion of the medicine that so completely effected their darling's
cure. The old gentleman offered him a purse of money, which he refused, saying,
he only wished to visit the family in a friendly way. Her father thanked him, and
requested his company to dinner that day week. Young Thomson, who thought
the day would never arrive, punctually attended in the same disguise, was kindly re-
ceived, and had the inexpressible pleasure of seeing his lovely patient more blooming
than ever. After dinner, he took an opportunity of walking with her in the garden,
where, after a turn or two, sitting down in a pleasant shady bower, they began to
talk of love, and of the day he first visited the family, devouring each other, as it
were, with their eager looks—kissing, and using all the modest freedoms that lovers,
whose hearts were so united and enflamed, could wish or desire ; and after some in-
terrupted sighs, he clasped his arms about her snowy neck—' Ah ! lovely Eliza,'
cried he, ' How blessed am I to have this opportunity to tell you how dearly I love
you; your are the only jewel in nature that I prize, and could I but be possessed of
you, I should think myself the happiest of all mankind.' At this, turning her eyes
with modesty on him, she said, ' That since he had been so kind as come so timely
and save her life, she would recompence him in any lawful way he could desire; for,
though she was courted by a gentleman named Pearson, and whom, she believed,
her parents wished her to marry, yet she was by no means prepossessed in his favour.'
Upon this encouragement, he pressed her further, and vowing eternal love and con-
stancy, she not only .gave her consent to a speedy mariage, but told him, happen
what would, her heart was his—on which, overjoyed with rapture, they returned to
the house. When Thomson was taking leave of the family, Mr Stewart invited him
to a public entertainment that was to be at his house the third day following, which
he accepted, and for that time parted. It appears this first was made to entertain
Pearson, who was exceedingly fond of Eliza, and her father, who wished to have
them married. The day arrived, and the rival lovers met each other at the enter-
tainment, during which Miss Stewart's partiality for Thomson was so evident that
Pearson could not contain himself—he rose hastily from the table and departed.—
The old farmer and his wife were astonished, and could not account for so sudden an
alteration. An explanation took place, when Pearson told what he discovered.
This increased their astonishment; they took their daughter into a room, and told
her what Pearson had-suggested ; when she said, 'Since Thomson has saved my
life, I shall be his wife.' Thomson entering just as she had finished, owned his love,
and asked the father's consent to marry Eliza, which the old farmer refused; and
while Thomson was reproaching him for his ingratitude, Pearson, who heard what
had passed, rushed in with a drawn sword, and made a push at Thomson, but he
nimbly put it aside, and drawing, wounded him in the breast. Thomson immediate-
ly fled. In a short time afterwards, Eliza found means to have an interview with
him, when they vowed nothing but death would part them. With tears and kisses
they parted, promising to write to each other—But, alas ! she was detected on her
return home, confined to her chamber, closely watched, and all her lover's letters
intercepted. She bore her confinement with fortitude, but lost all hopes of being
united with Thomson. Pearson had now full liberty to visit her when he pleased,
and did every thing in his power to render himself agreeable, while her parents daily
pressed her to give him her hand—the cautious maid at last turned to her parents",
and said, ' My loving parents, I never yet disobeyed, but take care you do not ruin
your daughter—I can give my hand—It is out of my power to give my heart.' The
old couple were now happy, and thought their daughter would soon be the
same—but mark the consequence, and let all parents profit by it—she was shortly
afterwards married—she grew melancholy, and would not be comforted. The mar
riage was heard of by Thomson, he could not stand the shock, and in a fit of in-
sanity, he hung himself on a tree, and Eliza being the first that discovered him, she
elapsed him in her arms and immediately expired.

EDINBURGH:—PRINTED FOR JAMES TAYLOR.