Martin's Wonderful Prophecies!

RELATING TO       

England, Scotland, and  Ireland.

With an Account of the Wonderful Changes that must shortly
take place in the Government, and in the State and Condition
of the People.

HAVING devoted many years to the  study of human events, and been an atten-
tive observer of what has been passing in Europe, particularly in Great
Britain, and its dependencies, I am thereby enabled to calculate, from what has
happened, and the perfect configuration of political affairs, What shall eventually
happen, and must shortly come to pass, as materially affecting the interest and hap-
piness  of the people under the British Government. In the course of my journeyings
through the wildernesss of this world, what strange scenes have I witnessed, and what
reverses of fortune have I suffered ! I have enjoyed prosperty, and suffered adver-
sity, more, perhaps, than has fallen to the lot of many persons. From these how-
ever, I have learned wisdom—been  in ored in the ways  of Providence to mankind,
and instructed by the vices and follies of erring mortals.

The revolution of seasons—the rise and fall of  Kings— the prosperity and adversity
of empires—the fends of party,  and ravages of war  have been carried on with little
intromission, in almost every country in the habitual globe.  All  these I have wit- 
nessed, and not more than  outlived them.

I paused here and went to bed; in the midst of a comtemplation, I was weighting  
in my mind what was  the cause of all these wars, and the numerous evils which em-
bittered the life of man. I had recourse to the Bible,, where I found all those things
as plainly as if they had taken place at the time the writers were penning them-- even 
the last of power, the pride and ambition of  Governers. I  closed  my eyes  for  sleep-
when lo ! a vision appeared, and thus addressed me :-"Far greater things than
those you have been contemplating will shortly take place. ENGLAND, after
having lavished her millions upon surrounding nation, will be forced herslf to seek
relief—no power will he found hospitable  enough to satisfy her request—her manu-
facures shall fail, there being no demand for them, and the seat of commerce shall
be removed beyond the Atlantic sea—divisions  will take place in the council of the
nation as to the best mode of saving it from bankruptcy—a bill will be passed to
abolish all credit-many merchants and tradesmen will be ruined. the poor labourinng
people will suffer severely, and   many will die of hunger and starvation ; after which,
a new system of things will take place, England will again shine forth in all the
splendour of noon-day.

IRELAND, long the seat of disaffection, shall be relieved from its present dis-
tress, and enabled, by cultivation of its soil, to maintain its own people, without
being obliged to allow her sons to emigrate to other countries, to take employment
from them who have not enough for themselves nor eat the bread of others, while
their own country, so amply fitted to produeced her long sought for claims, will be
restored, and her sons enjoy all the privileges which Protestants, at present ;receive:
she will not be allowed to emerge back to her former superstition, but be  brought
under the glorious dispensation which is so near at hand, when all sects will be
united in one great body.

SCOTLAND, the cradle of industry, whose mechanics can challenge Europe for
their equal, whose scholars can match the far-famed Greeks, whose orators can com-
pete with the cloquent sons of Rome ! thou must also undergo a change; darkness
must hover around thee for a season;  thy sons shall be driven from their employ-
ment, and be obliged to work for a scanty pittance at labour which they are unac-
customed to; thy women and children in humble attire, their food but scanty, they
shall cry, there will be no pity !  All thus shall come upon thee for thy abuse of
former mercies. For thy numerous transgression  shalt thou meet this punishment,
But thou shalt come out these afflictions, and be reinstated in thy former greatness.

From the various configurations of the planets, much variety of events may be
expected. Some foreign powers, that were thought, to be great friends to one ano-
ther, may be expected suddenly to break the league; and they will try, by craft and
subtlety, to exasperate those who are now at peace, and make them take a part-
Perhaps, however, the death of one or more great potentates, or their ministers,
may prevent all this mischief. More preferments may shortly be expected to be
conferred on deserving men, both of the legal and ecclesiastical function; and the
way is now open for men of all persuasions to via in promoting the interests of their
country.

Let us hope peace, happiness and prosperity, will attend the British nation; for
when was it ever known that war ultimately produced any good to Old England, or
to the countries she has professed to assist?  What has been achieved by the late
expensive contest? Why, at home an enormous debt! and on the continent of
Europe, the restoration of the ancient governments, with all their absurdities, ty-
ranny and blasting influence...standing monuments of disgrace to the age we live
in; and powerful barriers to the principal improvements that can give dignity to
man, or raise him to that eminence in the sphere of his existence which he was
designed to occupy by his Great Creator.
	When contending princes fight,
	For private pique, or public right,
	Armies are rais'd, the fleets are mann'd,	
	They combat both by sea and land ;              
	When, after many bottles past,
	Both, tir'd with blows, make peace at last;
	What is it, after all, the people get ?
	Why, taxes, widows, wooden legs and debt!
The vision immediately fled—a cold sweat covered my body—this may appear
wonderful as prophets have ceased, and may be considered by the learned as a fit
of delirium or a dream: the reader may rely that none of these circutmstances de-
oeited me, as these events will take place in your own day, and be confirmed by
your own experience,                                                                  (Price One Penny)