Trials & Sentences

Of the different persons who have stood their trials before the Circuit Court of Justiciary, which
commenced at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 10th September, 1821, when one Woman and two
Men have received the awful sentence of Death.

This day the Circuit Court of Justiciary was
opened here by Lords Gillies and Succoth,
when the following persons were put to the bar:

W. Cubbin alias Manks, for stealing from the
house or A. Stoddart, wright, parish of Lesma-
hagow. Six months in bridewell.

Kenneth M'Kenzie, lor culpable homicide,
by driving a cart over Helen M'Murrich, at
the end of Dumbarton bridge, on the 4th of
April last. Dismissed from the bar.

Andrew M'Kay, sailor, for rioting and mob-
bing in the streets of Greenock, on the 9th of
April last. 12 months in Greenock Jail.

Ann Wilson or Moore, for uttering a forged
note of the Belfast bank, on the 3d of May
last, in the warehouse of Campbells anu Co.,
Saltmarket.

The prisoner pleaded Not Guilty, saying she
took the note in payment of cloth which she
had sold.

William Adam, remembers the prisoner be-
ing in their warehouse, head of Saltmarket, on
the 3d May, making a purchase of some  hand-
kerchiefs, to the value of 12s. for which she of-
fered a 30s  note of the Belfast Bank; witness
showed it to one of the partners, who had no
objection to it; asked the prisoner if it was good
and she answered in the affirmative, adding,
that she gave 30s. for it in Ireland; another
Irish woman came same day, wanting change
of a note of the same Bank, after the prisoner
had passed her note; it seemed to be a forgery;
the woman belonged to a shop in Nelson-street,
of the name of Green; went to this shop, and
saw the prisoner there,' where she denied that
she had seen the witness in the morning, the
prisoner, however, said, that she got it from a
sailor in Greenock; witness took means to get
it convied to the Police Office; the note was
in a wet state, as if it had been chewed; witness
had no notes of Irish Banks but the one taken
from the prisoner; identifies the note.

Leticia Bond, shopkeeper of William Green,
straw-hatmaker, Nerson-street; the prisoner
called at their shop; and wanted to purchase a
straw hat; if she could obtain change for an
Irish note. The prisoner said she would take
25s. for the 30s. note, as she must have it
changed. Saw the note afterwards in the Police
Office, which she now recognised.

Sarah Gardner, servant of wm. Green; saw
the prisoner in the shop negociating with the
preceding witness in an affair of an Irish note,
witness was asked to go and get change for the
note, and returned with an answer, that she
could only get 26s. for it, to which the prison

er consented; shortly after this Mr. Campbell
made his appearance, and, producing a note,
said " did not you give this Bute to-day at our
warehouse;" while Miss Bond was out, the pri-
soner, being seated near the witness, said " I
wish all my be right—I hope she has not gone
to Campbell's." The prisoner complained of
a sore ankle, and having a piece of biscuit in
her hand, she said she was chewing it, but the
note was found on the spot, in a chewed state;
identified the note.

The Jury found the pannel guilty,  but was

unanimously recommended to mercy ; and Lord

Gillies, after a suitable admonition, senteneed
ber to be executed at Glasgow on Wednesday
the 24th October next.

She was born in the county of Monaghan,
but has been the greater part of her lifetime in
Bridgetown, and has been married about 20
years. She appeared much convulsed, and
fainted during her trial.

M.Macintyre, Wm. Paterson or Kidston,
and Margt. MacNair, for breaking into the
house of J. Niven, tanner, Greeneck, and steal.
ing therefrom three women's shifts,a half-sheet,
a black coat, three waistcoats, a pair of black
breeches, a pair of blue pantaloons,  a bomba-

zet gown, three printed cotton gowns, a cassi-
mere shawl, a cotton shawl, two women's caps,
three children's caps, two frocks, and two ap-
rons, and of being habit and repute thieves—
pleaded not guilty.

J. Livingstone, wise of John Niven, had oc-
casion to go out of her house and lock the
door ; on her return she found the house had
been entered and robbed of the articles detail-
ed above, gave information to her husband,
and heard the robbed had gone to port-GIas-
gow, whither she followed them but lost her
object; on returning she was informed by a
woman of the house (Montgomerie's) where
the robbers were; went there and found some
of the clothes , in particular the black breeches
that was worn by Kidston at that time—search-
ed Macintyre's lodgings and found there the
pantaloons, rolled up in straw in a cerner of
the bed. The above evidence was conoberat-
ed by her husband, who on searching the fe-
male prisoner, found she wore " one of his
wile's sarks."

The Jury found Macintyre and Kidston
Guilty, and the libel not proven against Mac-
Nair, when she was dismissed from the bar;
and the other two prisoners were sentenced to
be executed at Glasgow on the 24th October.

Printed by John Muir, Glasgow