TRIALS

AND SENTENCES,

Just published, the Trials and Sentences of the
different culprits who were tried this day before
the Lords of Justiciary in Edinburgh, among
whom were Walter Cunningham, a convict re-
turned from banishment; John Sutherland, a
baker, for theft; and James Graham for traffic-
ing in bad coin.

Monday, 10th December, 1332.

This day the Lords of Justiciary sat on the fol-
lowing trials, viz :—

John Sutherland, a lad about 15 years of age,
pled guilty to a charge of stealing a black coat
from the house of Angus Forbes, Jamaica Street,
aggravated by being habit and repute a common
thief,having been several times convicted of theft.
Sentenced to 7 years transportation.

Walter Cunningham, a stout middle aged man,
who was transported beyond seas by sentence of
the High Court of Justiciary in the year 1821, was
again placed at the bar on a charge of stealing a
great number of articles of wearing apparel from
a house in Newington, aggravated by his having
been formerly convicted of theft.

The prisoner pleaded guilty to the charge.

The Lord Justice Clerk, in pronouncing sen-
tence, said that he took this oppertunity of intimat-
i ng to the pannel that since he had left the colony,
a great alteration had been made by an Act of
Parliament, which greatly altered the law regard-
ing the punishment of convicts found guilty of
any felonious act; and that if he trespassed the
laws there, there would be no alternative but to
pronounce upon him the sentencc of a public ex-
ecution.

He was then sentenced to seven years transportation.

James Graham, a young man, dressed in a sailor's garb,
was next impanneled on two different acts.

1st.—-With attempting to buy, sell. pay, put off, or offering
base or counterfeit coin, in so far, that on one or other of the
days of July last, he did feloniously offer an imitation of a
genuine half crown for 15J, to Ann Liston, brochel keeper,
Paterson's Court, Lawnmarket.

2d.-With having in his possession eight counterfeit six-
pences, knowing the same to be counterfeit.

Mrs Liston deponed that the pannel came to his house one
day in July last, and enquired at her if she would buy any
flash, at the same time giving her a counterfeit half crown to
shew to her mistress, (supposing witness' to be the servant,)
and if it pleased her she could be provided with a pound's
worth of sixpences, shillings or half crowns, at half price.
The prisoner then went away, saying that he would call  back
again for an order. Witness having lodged information
with the police of what had happened, and the prisoner was
seized upon on his return.

Mrs Crant, who also keeps a bagnio, and resides next door
to the last witness, deponed that she overheard what passed
between the prisoner and Mrs Liston.

Eric Campbell aud Charles Ramage, deponed that they  searched the pri-
soner and found a base sixpence on his person and other seven in a box in his
lodgings, Dickson's Close,

Both charges   being  proved, (he prisoner was  sentenced  to  seven   years
   transportation,