FIGHT

Which took place at the Dumbie-Dykes, on
Friday morging, between a Tailor and
Clothier and a Coachman, in respectable
family in the New Town, originating in
their pretentions to  the hand of a handsome
Lady's-maid living in the same street.

Mr C—------- had long cherished a secret
penchant for the beautiful and accomplished
Miss lucy Martin, and was only prevented
from declaring his passion and throwing him-
self at the feet of his adored by a retiring
modesty towards the fair object of his affec-
tions, mixed up with a soul-harrowing dread
lest his Profession as a Tailor should operate-
as an insuperable bar in the eye of his
angelic Madona to anything like a re-
turn of his ardent flame. Jem the dashing
choachee of an adjoining house, had also cast
a sheep's eye towards the fair object of the
Tailor's fond regard;  and, on a late occasion,
at a convival party by a jovial butler, a mu.
tual friend of the aspiring swains, Coachee
thought proper evultingly to toast off a bum-
per to the health his fair dulcinea. This
liberty taken by Jehu with the idol of his
soul, so enraged honest Stichie that high
words ensued between them, which was
quickly followed by a blow from the dexter
hand of our hero of the whip, which drew
claret from the proboscis of the man of Cloth
who forthwith floored his opponent by a re-
mendous hit on potato-trap. A regular pll-
mell would now have commenced; but, for
the sake of the house, order was re-establish -
ed by their kind entertainer, and prelimin-
aries immediately arranged for settled the
matter by a regular STAND-UP FIGHT.

Both men appeared on the ground at the
appointed time;—the Tailor being seconded
by Tim, the flesher, and Jem by Jarvis, a
brother chip. A ring having been formed.
both stripped and went to work.

Round 1. Both men showed some science ;
they sparred for some minutes, when the
Stichie come down by a left hander upon his
knowledge-box.

Rounds 2 & 3. Good fighting ; the Tailor
jobbed cleverly, and threw down his man.

Round 4. Jem catched it on his dexter
ogle, which made it blush like a full blown
rose. In a close both fell, Jem upper.

Rounds 5, 6, 7, & 8. Lively work ; tiddy
tipping on both sides ; good game shown,
but coachie getting weak, and floored each
time.

Rounds 9 & 10. Counter jobbing ; Jem's
pepper-box shewed ocular demonstrations of
heavy work from his adversary.

From Round 10 to 14, it was evident that
the Tailor had it all his own way, as Jem
was getting weaker and weaker ; but he still
shewed pluck. The two last rounds lasted
only a few seconds, and Jem was taken off
by his suppoaters in a state of great ex-
haustion, having shewn game to the last.

Brown, Printer, Edinburgh.