                 WHIPPING!

An Account of the Trial and Sentence of THOMAS
HAY, for Stabbing William Moffat, in Leith,on 
18th of July last and who was, this day, pub-
licly whipped through that Town.

A Case came on for Trial on the 2d of February, 1824, unpara-
  lelled by the recent atrocity in Hertfordshire, and can only
be compared to some of the crimes which the busy tongue of ru-
mour had alleged against Thurtell and his gang. In the present
instance, the accused, Thomas Hay, resided in a solitary manner in
a house in King Street, Leith, no living creature cohabited with
him Having fitted up his inner room as a human sloughter-house,
he set out one morning in July last in quest of his intended victim,
whom he decoyed to the place of sacrifice, and against whom he
aimed the murderous blow, but happily failed in the accomplish-
ment of his diabolical purpose.

The indictment having been read, the panel pleaded, " I am not
guilty my Lord, but Mr Wilson is guilty of rousing me out of my
bed this morning, and bringing me here without my breakfast, a
state, I presume, which no one present is in but myself."

Mr William Mcffat, Wright  in Leith, said that on the 18th of
July last, he was walking, and met the prisoner about 3 in the
morn ing, who asked him to go along with him to see some repairs
he had to make, and requested him to send away two dogs that fol-
lowed the witness, as the pannel had a cat and kittens in the house,
When they got in th  house, the pannel locked and bolted the door;
prisoner pressed him to go into another room, from the one he first
entered, witness did so, and observed to the pannel that his wax-
doth on the floor was not properly laid down, for the red side was
upper most, and the ends lying against the chairs and bed instead
of being laid below them. The pannel invited me to take a glass
of spirits, he then said that he had bought some property in Edin-
burgh, and wished witness to put up some partitions, and wished
him to go and settle with the person he bought the property from,
as his leg was so sore he could not go himself, and asked witness
to make a receipt, for what money he would entrust him with,
which was £228, and rhewed him 12 £20 pound notes. The pan-
gave him a letter to read, while doing so he lift up his eyes and saw
prisoner standing over him.and making a thrust with a knife, which
in ettempting to ward off the blow he received it in his, arm, wit
uess wrestled with him, and threw him against the bed, and held
him on the floor, and succeeded in taking the knife from him, but
got the leader of one of the fingers of the right hand, and the lead-
ers of all the fingers of the left hand cut He then opened the
door and called for assistance. Prisoner was not intoxtcated at the
time. Had nev er quarrelled with the prisoner, nor had any words
with the prisoner before he stabbed him.

The pannel's declaration was read. Among other things it sta-
ted that Mr Moffat made up to the drisoner in Giles strett, on the
morning in question, and accompanied him to the house ; that the
wound was occasioned by his foot tripping while he had the knife
in his hand cuttiud bread and cheese with it, that in falling he up
set the table and cut Mr Moffat's arm. He (declarant) was unable
ro say where he purchased the knife, which appeared new and never
to have been used for any other purpose. He was unable to ac-
count for many other eircumstances, and refused to answer several
pertinent questions.

After observations at considerable length from the public prose-
cutor, in which he shewed she enormity of the crime of which
the pannel is guilty, and which was powerfully answered by the
pannel's agent, the jury deliberated a short time, and returned a
verdict of guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk, previous to pronouneing sentcuce, dwelt
greatly on the heinous nature of the crime of which the pannel was
found guilty, and remarked, that had his case been in England, the
last sentence of the law would have been awarded against him, his
Lordship then delivered the sentence of the law, viz. that he will
be transported beyond seas for the period of 14 years ; and previous
to which, to be publicly whipt through the streets of Leith, on
Wednesday the 18th February, 1824, which was accordingly done
this day.                  PRICE ONE PENNY.