MILLING

AMONG

The Fair Sex!

A Full and Particular Account of that Gallant and
most Extraordinary BATTLE, that was Fought on
Thursday last, 30th day of June, 1825, in the
Market Place of Aberdeen, between a Soldier's
Wife, and a Dandy young Fish Wife, at that place.

ON Thursday last a scene, very rarely witnessed here, although
among the Billingate  Ladies in the south, it is nothing un-
common,  accured  in  the Fish market in this Town.    It was  not
premeditated, and  therefore there  was no betting on either  side
though there might be several of the fancy present.

A Soldier's wife having, as is often the case, accasion to go to the
market to lay out her scanty pittance in the most beneficial and
economical manner, by some means or other, fell into a dispute
with a young aspiring dandy Fish wife, to whom she applied an
epithet, which it may be as well not here to repeat; suffice it to
say, that it had the effect of rousing all the Amazonian courage in
the blood of her antagonist. The insulted dame considered it her
imperative duty to vindicate her character and respectability, and
instantly rushed on her traducer, and gave her such a blow on the
breast, that sent her a reeling among the creels of the fish women.
The Soldier's wife, loth to be behind, and also considering the whole
British army to be grossly insulted in her person, gave the retort
uncourteous, when instantly a ring was formed by the females in
the market, and a regular set to commenced.

The dreadful conflict now commenced in grand stile, and if they
could not boast of using so much science as was lately displayed in
this neighbourhood, by Robinson and Crosbie, they certainly shew-
ed they were real game, and produced, at least, as much claret. The
Battle continued a considerable time, neither of the eombatants
seeming inclined to give it up; but the Soldier's wife, who seemed
to have most wind, as well as better science, snatching up a Native
from her opponent's creel, by a dexterious manœuvre, thrust it, tail
foremost, down her rivals throat. This, for the fish woman, was a
complete finisher; she fell in a moment, and instantly grew black
in the face ; and, if she had not been relieved by some of the by-
standers on the instant, she must have been choked.

Her resuscitation, however, served only to renew her rrge, and
encrease her courage, and they were about to set to afresh, with as
much appearance af vigour and strength as at the beginning, when
a Town Officer, who had got notice of the affray, made his appear-
ance, and with much difficulty, separated them. The condition of
both the amazons was truly disgraceful, and said little for the hu-
manity of the spectators.

Edinburgh; Printed for Alexander Turnbull....Price One Penny.