A FULL AND PARTICULAR

ACCOUNT

OF A

Female  Miser!

Who Died at Stirling on the 26th of
May last, 1820 ; to which is added,
an Account of the numerous curious
Articles found in her House after
her Death.

ISOBEL FRIZZEL, or FRASER, died at Stirling on the 26th day
of May last.    She was about 75 years of age at the time of
her death, and had no relations, but dwelt alone in a house of three
apartments, into which no person was allowed to enter.    She enjoy-
ed good health, but denied herself the common necessaries of life,
except a little to satisfy her hunger, which was of the cheapest and
coarsest kind, but never applied for charity.    She  employed her
time in doing menial work for householders, and in spinning, but
went frequently about the  streets collecting  cinders.    She would
not even take away the ashes from the hearth, without extracting
every cinder to the size of a pin head, leaving nothing but the white
ash, which nearly suffocated her at the throwing it out on the dung-
hill, as there was no substance in it to  make it fall to the ground.
She carefully picked up every pin  she fell in with, till she nearly
filled one hundred pincushions, of which she appears to have had
an immense number.    She was fond of articles of dress, and bought
many, though she rarely put them on her back.    Old copper, brass,
iron, crystal, ropes, &c. and every commodity which could com
mand a market, she eagerly gathered  together, and  sold.    At the
time of her death, and after taking a particular view of the different
apartment of the house she occupied  in Stirling, the following is a
pretty correct statement of the principal  effects of her wardrobe,
though they are a numerous list of inferior trash :—

About 800 muslin and linen women's caps—120 gowns and
petucoats, of various descriptions, 14 of them silk—30 pair of
brass candlesticks—17 yetlen pots, and 5 copper tea-ketcles—250
wooden dishes, of various descriptions—2 house eight-day clocks
and cases—60 pewter dishes, with a variety of block-tin ones—80
pairs of shoes, many of them very old-fashioned—10 sets of fire-
irons, with a great many odd ones—150 shawls, of various quali-
ties—1 pair of coach lamps, and 7 lanterns—6 cart load of cinders
and firewood—700 articles of crockery and crystal ware—100 pin-
cushions, full of pins, of all sizes and colours—15 gold and silver
trinkets— 3 pair of silver tea-tongs—3 chests of drawers, in one of
which were found £7 and odds in money—8 silver tea-spoons,
cannister ditto, silver table and desert ditto—a washing boyn, full
of marbles—a boyn full of perries and tops—a boyn full of penny
dolls—a great variety of sheets and blankets—a number of linen
shirts and shifts,

With a number of horn spoons, rusty knives and forks, a variety
of potatoe beetles, a number of buttons, which had been cut off
old coats that came in her way, old copper, brass, and crystal, and a
variety of spades, hay-forks, rakes, grapes, two communion cups,
and a great variety of other articles, too numerous for our limits to
insert.

PRICE ONE PENNY.