SECOND EDITION 


TOTAL WRECK   

OF THE                                                                                                      

BRITANNIA.           

An account of the melancholy loss of the Britannia Steam              
Boat, which was lost on her passage from Newry to the               
Broomielaw, early an Monday morning last.----Glasgow,                                  

15th October, 1829.                                                                                           

(From the Glasgow Courier of Thursday, Oct.15)                                                          

LOSS OF THe  BRITANNIA STEAM-BOAT.                                           

Early on Monday morning  last, this Steam Boat, on her                     
passage from Newry to the Broomielaw was driven by the                  
gale of Sunday evening into Donaghadee harbour, and sunk                       
there, after having been brought to anchor. We are happy
to state that the crew  and  passengers  were saved, several of                    
them having been awoke by the water coming in upon them                     
in bed. We understand that she is not  much damaged, and                     
is expected to be got up.                                                                                   

Since we copied the above from the Courier a letter has been                       
received in Glasgow, which states that the Vessel has become a                                   
total wreck.                                                                                                        

STATE OF IRELAND                                              

On Friday  night last, he farm of  Mr.Cloxton belonging to Sir Henry Parnell,                          
M. P, within a mile  of Mary borough, and within call of two Magistrates of the                              
Queen's County, was attacked between the hours of nine and ten o'clock by a party                                 
of Rockites who demanded fire-arms, and commenced to break  open the doors. The                          
police, going their rounds, heard the attack, and immediately made for the place,
upon coming up the Rockites  called, "who comes ? the police, was the reply they                                
were desired  to stand off, and the Rockite party called out, " picquet, what are you    
about ?" the Rockets fired four shots, which were returned by the police, after the                               
Sergeont had  received a  shot through the throat. One of the Rockites was stabbed                           
through the eye add taken prisoner, but , the others Hed.  A horse pistol and blun.                        
derbuss were taken loaded with  slugs ; traces of  blood were observed on the road for                             
three miles next morning.            

Next morning Captain Percival, a Magistrate, Lieuts. M'Cumming and Rollo                          
with the company of the 92d Highlanders  stationed  in Maryborough and Lieut.                          
Wray, with the; Maryborough and Stradbally, occured the country for miles round,                 
when one prisoner with several stand of arms,  were brought in. The outrage oc-                               
curred close to the military station.                                                                                                 
								John  Muir printer, Glasgow.                            