LAMENTATION

OF

MARY BRAID,

Who is to Executed at Edinburgh, on Monday the 17th day of February, and
her body buried within the precincts of the jail, for the unnatural crime of 
INCEST with her Brother, (who is to be transported beyond seas for life,) 
and the cruel and barbarous MURDER of her own child, their illicit off-
spring, by throwing it into the Union Canal, on the 13th of August last,
with a rope tied round its neck.

This town of late has been the seen

Of deeds too horrid for to name,

Even history blushes to afford

A space their occurrence to record.

Of heathen lands we have heard narrate

Foul deeds which freeze the blood to state ;

But lo! within this Christian land.

We equal deeds can now command 

Of Burke and Hare we have all heard tell,

Who, murdering, did their victims sell

To surgeons of the first repute

Who thought they'd naturally died—

Of Emond, whom sly vengeance drew

To kill his sister and neice too ;

And Howison, who, through wanton malice,

At Cramond slew poor Widow Geddes

Besides the list of later worthies,

Namely, M'Court, and Gow. and Beveridge,

Who, to get rid each of his wife,

Made use of poker, tongs, of knife.

Though all of these they were detected,

And each his crime has expiated

By shameful death—-yet, strange to say,

Like deeds are acted at this day.

As witness now the double crime,
Which of the city is the theme,
Incest between a sister and brother,
Cemented too with cool child murder.
Sure such can  never be the effect
Of the high famed " march of intellect ?"
Say, does a people when refined
Lose the finer feelings of the mind ?

As on my bed I lay last night,
(Sure sleep had at me taken fright,)
Such thoughts upon my mind still prey'd,
In reference to the case of Braid.
Methought a Genius wan and pale
Transported me unto the jail 
Through gate and wicket, 'thout key or bell,
He led me to the condemned cell.

Within the prison's darksome gloom,
These prisoners mourned their fated doom;
Their eyes were glazed, their cheeks were pale,
And they lifted their eyes in weeping and wail.
But there was one who strnck my sight,
Whose eye once beamed with lustre bright,
Though now 'twas bedimmed with many a tear.
As she thought on the day that was drawing near

As thus she sat in deep sorrow drowned,

Her frail body with many a chain being bound,

Beside her stood,in anxious thought,

Her brother, partner of her guilt.

Their looks betrayed their inward pain,

As they struggled a self-command to gain

To take a last and solemn farewell

Of each other they loved so fatally well.

At length spake the brother, while his tears ran down,
Farewell, dearest Mary, our time now is flown ;
Though death is your doom, how freely could I
With you exchange places, and in your stead die.
But, alas! I'll be hurried to a foreign land,
Where hard-hearted- tyrants shall o'er me command,
Without the least prospect of comfort or peace,
Till death's welcome message shall give me release.
Scarce able to speak, in his arms then she fell,
As she faulter'd these words, dear Thomas, farewell!
Repent of your sins, be Religion your guide,
And Heaven Will bless you whatever betide,
For me do not grieve-—I go hence in full hope
Of receiving free pardon through Jesus my God ;
In which blessed hope I trust I shall die,
And wake in the blessed assembly on high.

LAMENTATION.

Oh, all who hear of my sad state,

Oh, pity my dire case,
Do /?/ to an ignominious fate,

Deprived of human bliss.

Oh. if my days were to begin,

1 to the world would shew
That I would shun the paths of sin,

Wherein destroyers go.

Bin, ah ! these days are past .and gone !

In fetters here 1 lye,
Confined in a dungeon strong,

By men condemned to die.

Because God's laws I did transgress,
And would net walk therein ;

But fled the paths of righteousness
And trod the path of sin.

Tormenting thoughts oppress my heart,

While I think on my ways;
More piercing they're than sharped darts,

That have cut short my days.

And sure the vengeance it will come,

And on my head will full,
Unless that God's own holy son

Deliver me from, thrall.

O, therefore,, holy Son of God,

Do thou my soul relieve
From God's wrath and afflicting rod,
	
That now my soul doth grieve.

On thy redemption I depend ;

0  cast me not away;

But shield my soul, and me defend
Against the evil day.

And then of death's devouring pangs

I will not be afraid ;

When then by thine own righteous laws,
My righteousness hast made.
	
Good christians all, of every kind.

Who hear of my sad fate,
Repent, and sanctify your mind,

Before it is too late.

So that with you it may be well,
When you resign your breath,

And may with samts and angels dwell,
Free from the second death.

Remember, Lord, how short a time

On earth I've to remain.
And when I suffer for my crime,

May death to me be gain.

O let the prisoner's sighs ascend,

Before thy throne on high,
Likewise from death their souls defend

That are condemned to die.

O then give ear to what I say.

Seek God to be your guide;
Resort not with bad company,

And truth keep on your side.

For if you suffer passions strong

To triumph over you.
They'll hurry you to hell amongst

The lost and guilty crew,

Who've trampled on God's holy laws,

And his precepts cast behind,
And now thioughout eternity

Cannot one comfort find.

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.