EXTRAORDINARY.

APPREHENSION and EXANINATION  of the

EDINBURGH -.GENTLEMAN SWINDLER,

Just Published, a strange account of the proceedings
of Captain Smith, the notorious Gentleman Swindler,
who has taken-in a great number  of Noblemen and 
Gentlemen residing in Moray Place, George Street,
Charlotte Square, Herriot Row, Anslie Place, Royal
Circus, Athole Crescent, Newington, Stock Bridge, and
most every Street in the Newtown, who was appre-
hended by Sergeant Major Ramage, of the Police, while
riding up the Cowgate on a black charger, when £250
was found in his pocket, and a French Gold repeating
Watch hung round his neck ; also his examination
before the Sheriff.

SWINDLING EXTRAORDINARY.—Information having
been given to the Police Authorities, that an individual
whose real name, as far as we know, is Thomas Diekson,
but who has many ALIASES, had again appeared on the
scene, and began his avocations  in the above capacity,
a zealous search was instantly instituted, and he was
fortunately apprehended on Thursday night by Sergeant
Major Ramage. This personage who has a very pleas-
ing exterior plies his vocation in the following manner.
He contrives to obtain some vague history of the family
whom ne intruds to direct his attack, and having this
far veiled his imposture, he generaly assumes their name,
and sets forth a piteous interesting and rather elegant
tale of his misfortunes. By this means he has imposed
on the credulity of several persons in this City, and ob-
tained from £1 to £8. To give an idia of the extent
of his impositions we give the following names which
he took—Galloway, Jardine, Maxwell, Smith, Cragie,
Johnston, Carthcart, M'Kenzie snd Ferguson. He first
appeared in this City in 1833, and, we believe, also in
September of that year, but notice of his rogueries having
appeared in the newspapers, and the public having been
put on their guard, he found the scene rather too hot
for him and he wisely took his, departure. Thinking
that this had all blown over, he made his appearance
about ten days ago, although all his misdeeds during that  period had
not yet transpired. However, it was discovered that he had swindled
£2. from a family in Moray Place, to whom he had applied under
the title of Captain Smith, of the Dima of Liverpool, and thus led to
his detection. At the time he was apprehended he was riding up the
Cowgate on a long tailed black horse, which he had purchased from a
horse dealer of this City. Ramage having surveyed  his man, immed-
iately accosted him, and taking hold of the bridle,tacitly informed
him that he was his prisoner. Upon this he reined up with great
dignity, as much as to say why he was thus rudely stopped. Ramage,
however, was not to be balked in his pray, and at once pulled him
from his horse, cook him to the Police office, and sent his Bacephalus
to the White Hart Inn stables. He was then taken down to the family
in Moray place and identified there, as well as at other houses where
he had committed his fraud. On searching him, no less than £250
8s. Sd. was found on him. In appearance this noted character is
about 5 feet, 9 inches, fair hair, and complection. and, on the whole,
as we have already said, of rather prepossessing appearance.  He was
always elegantly dressed, generally in a while hat, blue jacket and
surtont, with white or blue pantaloons, for he was fond of personating
nautical characters. When apprehended, he also wore a handsome
French gold watch, with corresponding appurtenances  all suspended
round  his neck in the most sashlonable style. There are 5 Charges
against him, to account for which he is remanded by the sheriff.

FORBES, Printer, Edinburgh.