Alas!  Jamie's Pickled

ELEGIAC LINES

ON THE

Tragical Murder

OF

POOR DAFT JAMIE.

Gude people all, I pray give ear, to what I now do say,
And buy a copy o' this Poem before I gang away;
It can't but melt the hardest heart, whoe'er d' read it o'er,
How poor daft Jamie met his death, the like was ne'er before.

ATTENDANCE give, whilst I relate
How poor Daft Jamie met his fate;
'Twill make your hair stand on your head,
As I unfold the horrid deed :--

That hellish monster, William Burke,
Like Reynard sneaking on the lurk,
Coyduck'd his prey into his den,
And then the woeful work began :--

" Come, Jamie, drink a glass wi' me,
And I'll gang wi' ye in a wee,
To seek yer mither i' the town-
Come drink, man, drink, an' sit ye down."

" Nae, I'll no' drink wi' ye the nou,
For if I div 'twill mak' me fou;"
" Tush, man, a wee will do ye guid,
'Twill cheer yer heart, an' warm yer bluid."

At last he took the fatal glass,
Not dreaming what would come to pass ;
When once he drank, he wanted more--
Till drunk he fell upon the floor.

" Now," said th' assassin, "now we may
Seize on him as our lawful prey."
" Wait, wait," said Hare, " ye stupid ass,
He's yet too strong--let's tak' a glass."

Like some unguarded gem he lies--
The vulture waits to seize its prize;
Nor does he dream he's in its power,
Till it has seized him to devour.

The ruffian dogs,--the hellish pair,--
The villain Burke,--the meagre Hare,--
Impatient were the prize to win,
So to their smothering pranks begin :--

Burke cast himself on Jamie's face,
And clasp'd him in his foul embrace;
But Jamie waking in surprise,
Writhed in an agony to rise.

At last, with nerves unstrung before,
He threw the villain on the floor ;
And though alarm'd, and weaken'd too,
He would have soon o'ercome the foe :

But help was near--for it Burke cried,
And soon his friend was at his side;
Hare tripp'd up Jamie's heels, and o'er
He fell, alas! to rise no more !

Now both these blood-hounds him engage,
As hungry tygers fill'd with rage,
Nor did they handle axe or knife,
To take away Daft Jamie's life.

No sooner done, than in a chest
They cramm'd this lately welcom'd guest,
And bore him into Surgeons' Square--
A subject fresh--a victim rare !

And soon he's on the table laid,
Expos'd to the dissecting blade;
But where his members now may lay
Is not for me--or you--to say.

But this I'll say--some thoughts did rise :
It fill'd the Students with surprise,
That so short time should intervene
Since Jamie on the streets was seen.

But though his body is destroy'd,
His soul can never be decoy'd
From that celestial state of rest,
Where he, I trust, is with the bless'd.

Written by J. P.

Second Edition.

N. B.--There is published by the same Editor, (the second Edition with alterations,)
a LACONIC NARRATIVE of the LIFE and DEATH of POOR JAMIE ; in which are inter-
spersed, several Anecdotes relative to him, and his old friend BOBY AWL :--PRICE THRIP
PENCE.    The work will be embellished with a striking Portrait of Jamie.
Published by W. SMITH, No. 3, Bristo Port,