BATTLE

BETWEEN

Simon Byrne

AND

DEAF BURKE



A Full, True, and Particular Account of that most Desperate and
Well Fought BATTLE which took place between SAM BYRNE
and DEAF BURKE, on Thursday last, 150 miles on this side of
London upon the Great North Road, for L.150 a side,—when Deaf
Burke was declared Champion, after a desperate battle of 27 rounds,
which lasted one hour and fifteen minutes.

This long-appointed battle took place on Thursday last, about 150
miles from London upon the Great North Road, ana was attended by
all the principal amateurs of the London Ring, and came happily off
without the interference of the beaks. Heavy bets were laid on both
sides, and thousands were lost and won upon the occasion,—the odds, if
any, being in favour of Burke. Both men had been in active train-
ing ; they seemed to be in high spirits, and appeared to have been in
good keeping. Byrne weighed 9 stone 10 lbs., Burke 9 stone 2 lbs.

At the. time appointed, the combatants entered the ring, accompanied
by their seconds and bottle-holders, each uncovering themselves, and
throwing their castors in the air, amid the shouts of the spectators, and,
after shaking mawleys, took their positions, and prepared for action.

Round 1. Both men displayed great science. After some excellent
sparring, Byrne was floored by a left handed blow on the listener.

Rounds 2 and 3.    Byrne slipped from the heavy hits of his opponent.

Round 4. Good fighting: Burke jobbed cleverly, and threw down
his man, after having stood his ground well for five minutes.

Round 5. Severe exchanges right and left Byrne caught an un-
lucky hit on the potatoe-trap, which brought him to the ground.

Round 6. Burke hit Byrne a left bander on the dexter ogle, which
made it blush like a full blown rose, and threw down his man.

Rounds 7, 8, and 9. Lively work; tiddey tipping on both sides; and
game shewn to the entire approbation of the fancy.

Round 10. Both to work at close in-fighting. Burke lending a hit
at Byrne's victualling-shop, had it returned on his bread-basket; but on
coming to close fight, Byrne slipped down.

Rounds 11 to 14     Byre down, mostly slipping.

Round 15 Counter jobbing. Byrne's pepper-box shewed occular
demonstration of heavy work from his adversary, who floored him at
full length by a heavy left hander on the bread-basket.

Rounds 16 and 17. Good fighting. Burke jobbed cleverly, throwing
down his man. Byrne seemingly getting weak.

Round 18. Sparring for wind, displaying great caution. Byrne
floored his man by a right hander on the listener.

Rounds 19 to 22. Light fighting and slight hits from both parties.
All in favour of Burke, who kept his ground well, without shewing
many marks of heavy punishment, except on one of his peepers.

Round 23. Burke lent Byrne a tremendous blow on the mug, which
now began to look rather queer.

Round 24. All in favour of Burke, who was now tremendously
cheered. The betting high in his favour.

Round 25. Byrne made a desperate effort to turn the day ; and,
going in wildly, struck right. He was met nobly by Burke, who stopt
his thrusts, and lent him on the smeller, which sent him down.

Rounds 26 and 27. All in favour of Burke. Byrne had no chance ;
he was most desperately punished,—but again came up to the scratch.

Round 28. Byrne could scarcely stand on his pegs ; but, pluck to
the last, aimed a hit at Burke's pepper-box, but missed, and received
a counter hit on his potatoe trap, when he fell into the arms of his
seconds, completely exhausted.

Edinburgh,—Printed for Francis M'Cartney.

.