Trial & Sentence

Of WILLIAM M'INTYRE, an unfortunate Tailor, belong.
ing to Paisley, who was tried before the High Court of
Justiciary at Edinburgh, on Monday the 20th January, 1823,
and sentenced to be executed there on Wednesday the 26th
day of February next, betwixt 3 and 10 o'clock in the morn-
ing, for Housebreaking and Theft.

Edinburgh, Monday, December 20.—This day WILLIAM M'INTYRE was placed
at the Bar charged with the crimes of Housebreaking and Theft, perpetrated early in
the morning of the 3d of October, in the premises of Braehouse, in the Lothian Road,
at the west end of Prince's Street, the residence of Miss Ann Butler, and stealing
a large quantity of wearing apparel, to which the prisoner pleaded Not Guilty.

Murdoch M'Leod a watchman, heard a noise in Brachouse about two o'clock in
the morning of the 3d of October, and knowing the family was out of town, he cal-
led the next watchman, R. M'Intosh, and proceeded to examine the premises. M'-
In'tosh looked over the dyke and saw a window broken. Witness went to the front
of the house, and on his return to the back, M'Intosh called out that the thieves were
away, he having seen three jump out of a window. They ran through the garden
and got over the wall into a park, witness and M'Intosh pursuing; witness caught the
prisoner at the bar, whom he positively identified. Followed the track of feet in the
garden, and at the distance of 50 or 60 yards from the window found a black silk
gown. Several other witnesses were examined; after which

The declaration of the prisoner was lead, from which it appeared that he was born
in Paisley, had been a tailor in Glasgow, and came here for employment; that he
had been drinking the night previous to his apprehension, and for want of lodgings
went to sleep in a park, where he was roused by the cry of " Stop Thief," and was
taken into custody, at which time he saw two persons running.

The Jury after a very few minutes consultation, without leaving the box, found
the prisoner GUILTY of the crimes libelled.

The Lord Justice Clerk then proceeded to address the unhappy youth, expressing
his sorrow that in consequence of the verdict of a most respectable Jury it had fallen
to his lot to fulfil a melancholy duty. His Lordship said, the crime of housebreak-
ing had become so extremely frequent, as to lead to the supposition that it was not
regarded as a capital crime, but the example about to be made would prove the con-
trary. His Lordship remarked that, as it was the duty of all to prepare for the great
change which awaited them, it was peculiarly so for one whose days were numbered,
and earnestly besought the unfortunate young man not to waste the short time that
remained to him in this world, but by a thorough, sencere, and heartfelt repentence,
endeavour to obtain the forgivness of Almighty God,

His Lordship concluded by reading the awful sentence, which condemned the un-
happy victim to the injured laws of his country, to be executed on the 26th of Feb-
ruary.

He is only seventeen years of age; notwithstanding his efforts to hear his fate an-
nounced with fortitude, he was evidently great distressed, and shed tears from the
moment the verdict was returned.

There are no fewer than six wretched beings at present under sentence of death in
Scotland, viz. C. M'Laren, T. Grierson, James M'Ewan, and William M'Intyre, for
housebreaking, all young boys, lying in the Jail of Edinburgh; and James Robertson
and Robert Simpson, for robbing the Caledonian coach at Inverness, in the Jail of
which place they are now confined.

					Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.