SPEECH

OF

Sir  Daniel Sandford,

One of the Radical Candidates for the City of Glasgow, at Camlachie, on 6th
December, 1832—Conduct and base Plot of the Edinburgh Whigs to stifle
the New-Born Liberties of Glasgow—The Radicals triumphant.

SIR DANIEL after some preliminary remarks, stated that he had that day
received a letter from Edinburgh, which informed him that the Edinburgh
Whigs "were giving out that they had opposed his pretensions in Glasgow,
because he had not consulted Lord Holland, and because the ministry were op-
posed to him. (Cries of "oh, oh, and laughter.") So here it appeared that the
Edinburgh Whigs were the great movers of the opposition to his pretensions,
and the small whig coterie in this city were the mere slaves of another whig
coterie in the metropolis—(cheers)—mere puppets who moved as the strings
were drawn—who raised their little arms, and followed every mavement just as
it was imparted to them by their Edinburgh keepers. (Much laughter.) Now
ne wished the electors of Glasgow to draw from this fact an important practical
lesson, and he would relate one or two farther particulars to place the matter be-
fore them in a still clearer light. He had in his pocket a letter which he had
received from the Edinburgh whig leader in the important month of June last,
when they were struggling for the security of the Reform Bill, in which that
leader pours forth his whole soul in gratitude to him for his exertions on that
occasion. There was no hostility expressed—no opposition—but all was the
language of eulogium and gratitude—eulogium so high, that had he required a
certificate, as had been found necessary by one of his brother candidates, he
might have laid the document just as it stood before the electors—(laughter)—
but he and his friends needed no certificates—their claims to notice were known
to every elector. Such was the language used towards him by the Edinburgh
whigs during the struggle. But what was it now ? O we must oppose this
impudent fellow, because he presumes to come forward without the sanction of
Lord Holland, contrary to the wishes of the ministry. (Laughter.) He would
ask the electors did they conceive it necessary that Lord Holland should be con-
sulted as to their representatives ; or that they should require the information of
any ministry on the subject ? (Cheers, and cries of No.) But the allegations of the
cabal were not true. He pledged his word of honour as a gentleman, that what he
said on former occasions was true - that some of the liberal ministers had ex-
pressed to him an anxious wish that he should be returned to Parliament; and
as to Lord Holland when last in London that nobleman recommended him strong-
ly to become a candidate for Glasgow, and offered him the whole weight of
the ministerial influence. He replied that he was highly obliged to him, but he
thought that ministerial influence would do more harm than good in Glasgow.
(Cheers). These stories had been trumped up by the barefaced impudent Edin-
burgh Whigs, and their friends, the little cabal of whigs here, for the purpose
of keeping up the influence of their friends here, for whom we had fought the
battle when they were not able to fight it for themselves —(Cheers ) He ought
to apologise for keeping their attention so long to what might appear a personal
question, but he wished to show the electors and the people who the party were
in whom the people should stand most in apprehension at the present moment.
Glasgow could never again be a close corporation burgh, but let them take care
that it does not become a close party borough. (Loud cheers.) He would tell
them another story which showed the designs of the small coterie of whigs act-
ing here. He was in Edinburgh when the passing of the Reform Bill was look-
ed upon as certain, and was a visitor at the house of a leading Whig, when the
subject of who were likely to be candidates for Glasgow was started. It was
remarked as a thing to be hoped for that Mr Oswald would come forward. He
said he did not know whether he would or not, and expressed the great respect
he had for Mr Oswald, both on account of his private character, his consistency
in liberal views, and the hereditary honours he was possessed of, but expressed
his fears that after all, from Mr Oswald's tastes and time of life, he might not
make an efficient member. " O," it was replied, by one of the company, " we
don't want efficient members for Glasgow—we want two good votes."—They want
two good votes—two dead votes—and he supposed they wanted two dumb votes,
too. (Laughter.) He thought he might be able to show the motive for all this.
All the patronage and all the influence for Scotland had hitherto flowed in one
channel—Edinburgh ; and the Edinburgh Whigs were fearful lest Glasgow
should interfere with this snug preserve of their own, and therefore wished that
she should return only two dumb votes. He put it to the electors if they would
allow this free burgh—for it was now virtually free, to become a mere appendage
to the burgh of Edinburgh. (No, no.) This was the ground of the attempt to
force on the citizens two nominees by the small coterie, and all the opposition
made to him and to the other independent candidates. (Cheers.) If he had suc-
ceeded in producing a conviction in their minds that a plot had been formed to
stifle the new-born liberties of Glasgow, it lay with them to crush the design.
More than one candidate was before them free from the trammels of any cabal
—who were not the nominees of any party, ready to do their work, be it dirty
or clean, but whose whole labours would be in the service of the people. It
would be their own fault if they did not at this crisis send independent men to
Parliament in whom they could vest the destinies of the country for weal or for
woe ; unfettered men, who would not give dumb votes, but who would raise
their voices on every subject which affected the interests of the country. Sir
Daniel then repeated his sentiments on church establishments and the corn laws,
and concluded amid great applause."

These are the actions of men who would force and cajol the Independent
Electors of Edinburgh to elect a PENSIONER for our good city.