Dandy Bewitched

A copy of a Love Letter from a Dandy Clerk, in
this city, to a well known Mauntamaker, wherein he
depones by his beben tuckers, (which he declares
to be the finest of cambric) that he loves her above
all the Rules of Arithmetic.

Dear Exquisite,
		Please accept from a dispairing Dandy, a
few lines, the sentiments of which, breathes his regard to thy
neat, neat little person. Always since I saw thee, at the Botanic
Gardens with Miss R........ the thoughts of thee, are my con-
stant companion. I am perplexed about thee in such a manner
that I think I am bewitched. I think it would be no pain in the
frostiest night in winter to sit on a cold stone and shiver to
death for thee. Thou art my constant attendent. In bed I
dream of thee, and at my desk the blunders in the Waste-Book,
tells who is present. But I prize thee above all the rules of
Arithmetic.

		Dearest, the other day in St Mary's Wynd, as
I passed through it, I purchased a pair of second-hand Wel-
ington's, that I got for five-and-sixpence, I had no money but the
Broker seeing my genteel appearance, was kind enough to trust
me. They are very high in the beel, and I have been practising
myself in the most fashionable way of walking on the heel,
which in a great measure will hide the effect of my plain soles.
I have got a pair of second-hand stays; and yesterday, I went to
my tailor, (who never refused to trust me) and ordered a suit of
new clothes, and told him to put false brands in my trowsers,
which he assured me that he would do in the neatest manner
and to have them on Saturday night. So, that on Sunday you
will much oblige your lover if you will be in readiness by eleven
o'clock, to ride out with me, not in one of these hackneys which
I cannot endure, every person reading the owner's name, under
the window, but I shall look out for an exquisite Carricle, when
as we ride we shall be taken for quality, which we really are, go-
ing to visit their property in the country.

		P. S. I expect that you will favour your lover,
by the 15th of the month with your definitive answer inclosed
in a valintine, containing the portrait of your neat little person,
and you know who else, and then I will sing you the little song.

Of dandyship I sing, for you know its just the thing,
Yes, you know its just the thing to recommend you, O,
In the carricle we'll ride, and the sutty poor deride,
That we'll make support our pride to act the dandy, O,

No more at present, but remains,

Dearest,

your dispairing Dandy

JOHN SLINK.