INTERESTING CASE OF TORY INTIMIDATION.

Just Published, a Correct Copy of that Singular & Extraordinary Dialogue that took place between a young Lady, daughter of a Professor in the College of Edinburgh, and a Merchant on the Bridge, who was threatened by the Lady with ruin and destruction, if he did not vote for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmontch. 

The following strange affair is taken from a respectable Edinburgh journal – the disgraceful practice of intimidating electors into a violation of conscience, by promises amounting to bribery, or threats inferring worldly ruin, has been resorted to y  the Tories at the present election canvass, with more effrontery determination then was perhaps ever exercised upon any former occasion.  The extent to which these dishonest practices are carried, is sufficiently detailed in a letter inserted in the ‘Scotsman’, of Wednesday last, under the head “Tory Tactics”, and we can add many other acts of intimiditation, but the following may be taken in the mean time as a specimen of the gentler sort of coercion which certain fair conservatives employ to win over their fellow MEN to support the present PITTY-coat government. The coloquy bet ext the fair canvasser and the independent Reformer is given verbatim. The respectable merchant alluded to is known to us, and we can substantiate the fact:

Miss — Mr G, I called to ask you how you are going to vote at the ensuing election.

W. G, — I vote for Abercombie and Campbell.

Miss — That is a pity. It is a great pity. The professor desired me to call and ask you to vote for Lord Ramsay and Mr Learmonth, and I confidently expected you would do so.

W. G, — I cannot. I know that Professor — differs from me in political opinions but it cannot be helped.  I will not deviate from my principals.

Miss — It is a great pity. You ought to deliberate better on the subject. You will hurt your business.

W. G, — On that point I am quite indifferent. I may be obliged to break stones on the road side for my daily bread, but I will never be induced to vote against my principals.


Miss — Well; it will be a matter of consideration whither we deal with you any more or not.
W. G, — On that point you may make up your mind—on the other, mine is made up long ago, and will be maintained, let the consequences be what they may.

The lady departed “without bow, or nod, or scrape”.

The journal referred to states, that although the lady’s name is not published in this instance, yet they are in possession of it along with many others, and should this shameful system of intimidation be persevered in, it will be found necessary to make a general exposure of their names.  So the young Tory Ladies had better be on the look-out for squalls, as an exposure of this kind would certainly be a mot in their marriage not easily wiped off.


A DUNBAR PRINTER  EDINBURGH