   TRIAL

	and Sentence.

An account of the trial and sen-
tenece before the High Court of
Justiciary this day, Thursday.
of James Sime for house-break-
ing & theft, who is to be executed
at Edinburgh, on the 15th August
next.

This day, Thursday, 12th July, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary the trial of James Sime accused of
four different crimes of housebreaking and theft, by enter-
ing into a house in the West Bow, Edinburgh, by the
means of false keys, and stealing a leather trunk, contain-
ing wearing apparel, &c. also entering a house in Lady
Stairs Close, Lawnmarket, with false keys, and stealing a
quantity of soft goods ; likewise entering into the Porters
Lodge at Trinity Cottage, and stealing various articles of
wearing apparel ; and lastly breaking into the Porters
Lodge at Greenhill, near Colington, and stealing therefrom
different articles of men, women and childrens wearing;
apparel.

Jean Berrie or Rae, stated that her house is situated in
the West Bow, and that on the 25th day of March last, it
was entered in her absence, and various articles stolen,—a
trunk and various articles was shown her, which she iden-
tified as her property, also a letter dated Forfar  9th March,
1827, addressed to her, which she likewise identified,

Robert Hamilton said that the premised possessed by
him in Lady Stairs Close, Lawnmarket, was entered into,
on Saturday the 26th day of May last, and a piece of Shirt-
ing, 3 pieces of apron check, pieces of gown cloth, India
silk handkerchief, British silk handkerchiefs, cotton hand-
kerchiefs, cotton handkerchiefs, blankets, sheets, stockings,
shawls, &c. &c. Various of the articles were produced in
court, which the witness immediately identified.

From other evidences adduced, it was proved, that the
prisoner, on the 28th day of May last, did break into the
Porters Lodge, at Trinity Cottage, in the parish of North
Leith, and stole away various articles of weaving; Apparel,
&c. and also breaking  into the Porters Lodge, at Green
bill, near Edinburgh, the property of Sir Wm. Forbes, on
the 3 th day of May, 1827, and stealing theressom a quan-
tity of Wearing apparel.

A certificate of a Sentence against  the prisoners for theft
before the Police Conrt, was read in evidence against the
prisoner.

The Lord Advance addressed the Jury, which was ably-
answered by the prisoners Advocate.

The Jury retired for a short time, when they returned
their verdict, finding the prisoner guilty but recommended
him to mercy.

The Lord Justice Clerk addressed the prisoner, in his
usual solemn and pathetic manner, impressing on him the
necessity of turning his mind and thoughts on a future
state. He then sentenced him to be executed at Edin-
burgh, on the 15th day of August next.