SERIOUS OUTRAGE

and Disturbance in Glasgow.

An account of a Serious Outrage and Disturbance
in Glasgow, on Saturday night last, 21st June,
wheu the Military were called out, and 43 per-
sons were apprehended and lodged in prison.

On Saturday night, about eight o'clock, a number of persons from
Bridgeton, Rutherglen, and Camlachie, who had been accustom-
ed to walk on the banks of the river above Dalmarnock Bridge,
proceeded to clear the way by making breaches in the fortified
walls and fences which obstructed their former recreation. A
number of encouraging spectators were on the spot. Scarcely
had the operators finished their labour when a detachment of the
Enniskillen Dragoons. came up and took 43 individuals into cus-
tody. Several persons plunged into the river and crossed it, to
avoid the risk of seizure. Various individuals walked through
the gnps on Sunday morning ; but by and by the soldiers were
again employed to prevent the passage. At the time the walls
were erected, they were for some nights levelled by the people,
and it was not till a strong guard was placed.on the spot by the
Proprietor, that the works were finished. The spikes at the ter-
mination of the wall next the river were in imitation of the thorns
of a Scottish thistle—an unhappy emblem for the occasion. The
wall so finished was impregnable to the solitary walker; and,
though it constantly excited dissatisfaction, it stood unmolested
till some neighbouring prodrietors took it for a precedent, and
laid down stone and lime for similar works.

The people began the attack by collecting all in a body, the formost
being provided with boring instruments. About 12 stout young men
were assisted to the top of the wall, and with quarry wedges, levers,
heavy hammers &c, they split they stones in which the iron was fixed
and pushed the forked roller into the water with three cheers. The
wall which is nearly 10 feet high. and 4 feet thick, was attacked at
different parts, and after much labour, at half-past to the obnoxious
erection was erased and the former passage opened up. A person
made his appearance on horseback, and said, ' Well, lads, you have
got the wall down, I hope you will not  injure the house,' No, no,
was resoanded from all voices, ' we will touch nothing but public pro-
perty.

The crowd then went off to the second wall about a mile
distant, at the end of this wall were large piles of wood driven
to the edge of the water, to this they set thorns and loose
wood, to which they set fire to. The fire served them for a
light, and they soon levelled this wall also, which was very
strong. Some person sent to the sheriff, a statement, that an
assemblage, collected by beat of drum, some of them armed,
were committing violent outrages. Acting upon this inform-
ation, the Sheriff had come out with the military. The mob
instantly dispersed, some waded through the river, and the rest
flew in all directions. No resistance was made. The military
took 43 prisoners.

The road between Tollcross and Camlachie was thronged the
whole night by people either on the out-look for their friends, or
to get the news. At 5 o'clock the prisoners were brought into
jail, escorted by a party of cavolry, and attended by a large crowd.
As they entered the jail, three cheers were given them, which
they returned. The former walk being opened up, the lieges
next morning were taking that way when they were stopped by
the cavalry who remained there all day, and reinforcements of
horse and foot were sent out in the evening for the same purpose.
At a very early hour on Monday morning, as many masons were
set to work as could ger room, and the first breach was soon re-
built. The people were kept off by the military, who threatened
to fire on any who passed the limits. All the prisoners have been
liberated except one.—From the " Glasgow Chronicle."

Subscriptions for defraying the expence of clearing the pu-
blic walks, on the banks of the Clyde, from every annoyance,
are going briskly forward. This is more praise-worthy than a
lawless mob committing every kind of depredation.