Fatal Love!

Warning to Lovers.

A Full and Authentic ACCOUNT of a most Mclancholy
and Extraordinary occurrence of FATAL LOVE,
which took place at Kincardine, on Thursday last;
together with a COPY of the Very affecting LETTER,
which was found in the young Woman's bosom
after she was out down, and which fully explains
the cause of her committing this rash and fatal act

On Thursday last, Miss M'C-------n, daughter of a respectable gen-
tleman in Kincardine, was found suspended from the ceiling of her
own room. She made use of a scarf for the purpose: she rose that
morning very early, and one of the servants in passing her room
heard a noise ; she went to see, but was struck on beholding the
young lady suspended from the ceiling ; she called for assistance,
which soon arrived, but the lamp of life had ceased to burn, and
nothing was left but to weep at her untimely and rash conduct.
At her father's death, she would have fallen heiress to an income
of about  £400 a-year. A West Indian Captain caused this rash
act, he having held out promises which he never intended to fulfil,
and who sailed for the West Indies before her remains were laid in
the silent grave,

The following beautiful and interesting lines was found in her
bosom next morning, after she was cut down :....

" Dear CAPTAIN,....If my exhausted spirits would support my
trembling hand, whilst I write a few lines to ease a broken heart, it
would be the last office I would require them to do. Then may
they leave me: then may I find in my grave a retreat from the
scoin of men. How is my gold become dim, and my most fine
gold become drass. I do not now command you by the awful
name of virtue to accuse you of the basest ingratitude, ah no, the
scene is entirely changed ; you have robbed me, cruelly robbed
me of the brightest gem in the female character, and I come as an
humble supplicant. Is this possible—am I awake, or do I dream ?
Ah ! poor deluded girl, think not what you are; how can I rest
from calling to remembrance those days of innocence and peace,
when, with a sincere countenance and sincere heart, I could look
up to heaven, and beg that the God of purity would be my pro-
tector ;....but ah ! how am I changed, how is my virtue faded, how
doth conscious guilt fill my soul, whilst blushes cover my face ; sad
reflections on my present state hurry me to meditate on the future;
which opens so tremendous a scene to my views, as to strike me
back in doleful remembrance of the past time.

If I fly to my parents, who were once all my comfort, they bathed
in tears, cry out, you have brought our gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave. If, to get one moment's ease, I wander into the
fields, every flower seems to say, we are pure. Thus is all nature
armed against me. And on whose account do I seem to be for-
saken by heaven and earth !....on your account, who strove to gain
my affections, and become master of them ; and now you triumph
over me—laugh at me for trusting to your honour, and putting
Confidence in your word.

--------O inconstant men,

How will you promise—how deceive !

O hypocrisy, how couldst thou wear so winning a form ?—Gene-
rosity, where art thou fled ?—Honour, hast thou forsaken the human
race ?—Look on my distress, O my God. Despise me not, O my
friends---forgive me, my distressed parents: then may the cold
grave receive me into its peaceful recesses, where my shame may
be buried in eternal oblivion. Now, if your heart be not as hard
as adamant, if your conscience is not seared as with a hot iron,
some past scenes must appear to your view. I do not now summon
you to appear at His awful tribunal ; I find you are still too near
my heart; for all your cruelty to me, my return is, May you in
the hour of death find that consolation from your God and Judge,
you have denied to your

  AMELIA M'C—-N."


Price One Penny.             