A True  and Correct Account of that

MOST WONDERFUL

CHILD,

Only 11 months old, which weighs be-
tween 9 and 1O stone, with a descrip-
tion of his length, thickness, and ap-
pearance, what diet he takes, &c. he
was born at Cambnsnethan, 15 miles
from Glasgow.

THE following is an account of one of the most wonderful
 children, which it has ever fallen to the lot of man to pen,
and which would scarcely be believed unless it were fully auth-
enticated by the numerous persons who have had an opportuni-
ty of vouching to its truth, and who declare it to be one of the
greatest curiosities that ever appeared in the human world.

The child belongs to a respectable family in Cambusnethan,
was born in April 1820, and is at present only eleven months
old, and quite healthy; measures about a yard round the body,
and is well proportioned in every part ; the weight of this boy
is between nine and ten stones, his body, legs and arms being
exceeding thick, and the only difficulty attending the mother in
nursing him, is his wonderful weight ; she is obliged to have re-
course to the expedient of laying him upon a table or some other
support, not being able to carry him in her arms. Should he
be spared to arrive at the years of manhood, he will form one of
the most rare and wonderful personages which ever made their
appearance in this or any other country. His thickness is the
principal object which strikes the attention of the beholder, his
height not being greatly above that of other children at the same
age.

The diet of this child is similar to that which is given to other
children of the same age, consisting of bread-berry made up in
the usual manner, and of which he takes but a very moderate
quantity.

Great numbers of persons have been anxious to visit this in-
sant, wishing to attest the truth of it by their own observation.
not believing the stories which were propagated about it, but
which they now assert to be one of the greatest wonders ever
witnessed amongst the human race.

From this description. the reader may form an idea of this
child, and which he may rest assured is correct; the people who
saw it and communicated the particulars are of the most respect-
able order, and whose information may be confidently relied on.

When we reflect on this wonderful child, it shows us how varied
are the works of Him who called us into existenca, and who sup-
ports all things, and makes every thing tend to the intellectual
improvement of his creatures. When we reflect on the variety
of trees in the forrest, all varying in length and thickness, some
pleasant to the view of the beholder, and others tottering under
the infirmities of age, and when we view men in all their different
stages, each one differing from another in appearance : some stout
and healthy, others lingering and emaciated from disease ; some
possessed of all the learning and amiable qualities which adorn hu-
man life, and others possessed of a quite different disposition ; when
we consider all these differences of appearance in this lower world,
we are led to exclaim, ' How wonderful are thy works, O Lord,
yet in wisdom hast thou made them all. To him therefore, let
every created, bring how, and acknowledge him a the dispenser
of every lot in human life.

Price One Penny