A. Full and Particular Account of the Extravagant Adventures
of a young inexperienced Farmer from the Country, on
Wednesday last, who fell in with a Dandy Young Lady,
that took him to the famed Battery, in the Canongate ; with
the Funny Conversation, Comical and Critical Circumstances,
and serious Consequences that took place on that occassion, &c.

Going down the Canongate and coming back,
I was attacked by a lovely pack,
They were that drunk they could hardly gang,
They wanted me into their thrang.

One said to me I have a golden ring,
I will sell it to thee for any thing,
If you will with me gang,
Into a shop and give me a dram.

My ring is of the purest gold,
For often I have had it sold,
And many a shilling it has brought me,
When I was in distress and poverty.

It is in the Battery where I stay,
There is cannons round it plays every way,
And there are mortars of a large size,
That does the enemy surprise.

It stood the storm all last war,
Altho' surrounded by enemies from afar,
There is plenty of fresh troops the Battery within ;
Ready for action, and long to begin.

I have a room in it and a canty fire,
Where you may have your heart's desire,
You will be as safe there with me,
As when you were on your mother's knee.

There is plenty of sentinels the Battery round,
That will protect you though you sleep sound,
For they are all picked soldiers that are here,
To fire their muskets off they do not fear.

Be persuaded all night with me to stay,
And when day light comes in you may go away,
I consented to go with this lovely maid,
I thought I need not be afraid.

We spent that night in merry reels,
Kicking about stools and creels,
And then we wont to take our rest,
For we had drank whisky of the best.

When day light did come in,
I begun to sing a mournful tune,
For in that place I was left alone,
I felt my pockets and my money's gone.

What if my mammy should ken,
That I lay all night wi' a hen,

That picked my pockets so complete,
My mammy I dare not meet.

My horse in the stable and the bill to pay,
What can I to the Landlord say,
But that all my money I paid away,
And that he will be paid on a future day.

But this may not please him,
 To keep my horse he will begin,
 Until the bill I do him pay,
And then to me he will have no more to say.

I am twenty miles from home,
To walk on foot and go alone,
Without my beast and my breeches tore,
Every body will on me glour.

My mother does in the farm still dwell,
And for her tongue she kens hersel,
It is as loud as any bell,
And soon will sound my death knell.

My father died sometime ago,
Which caused me both grief and woe,
To me he proved always kind,
To him I could reveal my mind.

The doctor says I am not well,
With that he gives to me a pill,
It's night and morning for to take,
Swallow that or your life's at stake.

You must wear your dressing gown,
With a good fire into your room,
Low diet must be your food,
With water gruel to cool your blood.

M---------l o---------t you must rub in,
This very night you must begin,
Until the disease be entirely laid,
You have got it bad, the doctor said.

It wag the first time I was in Edinburgh town,
I never thought to meet we such a loon,
All her promises she was to fulfil,
But now I see it was all for my ill.

All young men a warning take by me,
From lewd women keep yourselves free, [ground,
They are like the subtle serpent crawling on the
For in their tail a sting is to be found.

(Price One Penny.)