Ghosts, &c.!

-----—XXX--------

A True and Particular Account of the
Disastrous Circumstances attending the
Horrible and most awful Appearance of
a GHOST, which took place in a
House  in the High Street of Edin-
burgh, on Wednesday Evening, the
17th October, 1827.

WE hare heard and read of Brownies, Ghosts,
hobgoblins, &c. having done much mis-
chief, and caused a great deal of trouble, to the hu-
man race, in various parts of the world, particular-
ly in earlier times, though some of them are said to
have been very useful, and done considerableservice,
especially the former ; and, although they are evi-
dently decreasing in number in these latter times,
or retiring to some other more favoured parts of the
globe, yet we occasionally hear of their appearance,
and of their playing off several mischievous pranks,
even in populous cities, as well as in obscure country
places, to the great terror and annoyance of the people.
The following paragraph we copy from a respect-
.able Edinburgh Newspaper, in proof of this asser-
tion, which needs no comment.

" Ghosts.—These beings, as winter approaches,
are becoming excessively trublesome to the peace-
able burghers of the High Street. On Sunday
se'ennight, a mob of at least 500 persons, collected
at the head of Stevenlaw's Close, to witness a
spectre-like figure, arrayed in white, walking about
a room in one of the houses. Unlike other ghosts,
this one had a shadow, which being reflected up-
on a wall in the room, had a most dismal effect.
The mob were so penetrated with horror, that they
contemplated the spectre in the profoundest silence,
until it extinguished the candle it carried ; and they
withdrew.

On Wednesday night a still more terrific spectre
appealed in Mr Mitchell's house, up a com-
mon stair. No. 166, High Street. Some nights
previously it had disturbed the family by various
dreadful noises ; but on that particular night, only
the two servant-maids being at home, one of them
had occasion to go into a room oft" the kitchen.,
when she observed, gliding before her, a tali, gaunt,
and unearthly figure, much resembling a certain
lank hosier, which howled as if in the utmost ago-
ny, both of mind and body. Away she flew down
stairs, followed by her companion; and, in a pa-
roxysm of terror, they burst open the door of a
neighbour, a respectable solicitor, who was so much
alarmed by their distraught appearance and pierc-
ing cries, that he hid himself under his bed clothes.
From the solicitor's, they hurried to Mr Men-
zies's coffee room beneath, where they were kindly
received, and remained for the night. The whole
neighbourhood was thrown into commotion, in the
persuasion that a fire had broke cut; and families
were preparing to remove their furniture. One
individual, in particular, brought a portable fire
engine to the spot, which he phed up the common
stair with such vigour as threatened annihilation
both to the ghost and solicitor. The police was
sent for, and, as usual, a mob collected ; but no one,
that night, ventured to enter the haunted premises.

The following night they were taken possession
of by three stout-hearted policemen, who kept
watch till the morning; bur nothing occured to
them to excercise  their courage. We regret to learn,
that the health of the girl who saw the appariation
has been very seriously affected by the fright. The
unfeeling author of which, it is to bo hoped, will
not escape detection."—Edinburgh Weekly Chronicle,
Wednesday, October,24th, 1827.

Printed for William Walters.—Price one Penny.