A TRUE ACCOUNT OF THAT

FATAL DUEL

Which took place on Tuesday morning 26th March,
1822. beween, Sir Alexander Boswell Bart. and
James Stuart Esq. in Fife when Sir Alexander
was mortally wounded, and died on Wednesday.

WE are deeply concerned to state, that a meeting took place on Tuesday
morning about ten o'clock, at Auchtertool, in Fife, between Sir Alex-
ander Boswell, Bart, of Auchinleck, attended by the Honourable John Douglas,
brother to the Marquis of Queensberry, and James Stuart, Esq. of Dunearn,
attended by the Earl of Rosslyn. The parties both fired by signal, when Sir
Alexander was mortally wounded in the right shoulder, the ball shattring the
collar bone; but on the most minute examination, its course fterwards could
not be discovered.

Sir Alexander was carried to Balmuto house, where he died on Wednesday
afternoon at three o'clock.

An erroneous account having appeared of the manner in which Mr Stuart
got possession of some papers, proving that Sir Alexander Boswell was the
author of the numerous attacks in the Glasgow Sentinel against Mr Stuart, we
are desired to state, that Mr Stuart some time ago raised an action of dam-
ages agaisnt Messrs Bothwick and Alexander, the proprietors of the Sentinel.
On one of the last days of the Session, a gentleman from Hamilton, (the
country agent of Mr Bothwick) came to Mr Stuart, and stated that Mr Both-
wick was extremely desirous of having the action settled, and asked Mr Stuart
if he was inclined to do so. Mr Stuart answered, that would depend on the
communications made to him. The gentleman said Mr Bothwick was in jail
in Glasgow, for a debt which he (the agent) was going to discharge, and that
Mr Bothwick would produce all the papers in his possession. Mr Stuart
did not agree to any settlement of the action, but having been long extremely
anxious to find out. The Authors of the attacks upon him, he went to Glas-
gow ; and Mr Bothwick after being liberated from prison, brought a number
of papers and put them into the hands of his Edinburgh agent, who was then
at an hotel along with Mr Stuart. Among these that gentleman and Mr
Stuart to their utter astonishment, found in the hand writing of Sir Alexander
Boswell (who had never been suspected,) the papers which led to the fatal
reneountre. Mr Stuart neither paid, nor agreed to pay, any part of the debt
for which Mr Bothwick was imprisoned ; he neither paid, nor agreed to pay,
Mr Bothwick any money and he never was in the office of the Sentinel from
which he understood the papers were brought. We understand that Mr Stuart
has given notice ,that he is ready to appear to stand his trial.