The  whole    particulars   of that  fight
between   .Johnston    and Pat Holton,
which   took   place yesterday,  Monday
(7th March 1825, for a heavy sum of
money,    about   12    miles from Edin-
burgh.

(Extracted from the Account given in this day's Edin. Observer.)

  Yesterday being the time appointed for this momentous en-
counter, and being saint Monday besides, every  drunken  son of
Crispin, and every knight of shreds and patches was early on the
move ler Winchburgh.    Irishmen fight tor pleasure, Englishmen
for fame, and Scotchmen when they can't help it,    The last love
to lock on however.    The place of rendezvous,  through   fear of
unchivalrous beaks, had been kept a profound  secret to  all  but
the knowing ones.    In the morning, however, the humblerfrends
of the fancy scented the ardour  of preparation,    The   circle  of
action was a comfortable lea field, on the farm of Kirkland, on
the southern bank of the Union Canal,  nearly   midway between
Winchburgh and Broxburn.    The ground was soon covered  by
an immense concourse of spectators.    All sorts of drags  were in
tremendous requisition, from the potent chariot and four, followed
by unnumbered pupils of the quoniam attachiamenta down to the
humble apple cart of our Irish hucksters.    Not a few of the peep-
ers were of rank enough to feel queer should they have been sus-
pected of any vulgar prediliction for a mill.     But the love of claret
levels all distinctions.    At  a   few   minutes   before   two   o'clock,
Gypsey Johnson threw his castor into the ring, with the air of a
Hector, amidst the applauses, of thousands.     His second   imme-
diately attached his ensign, in the shape of a blue belchar, to the
ropes of the ring.    In ten minutes after, Halton, an ugly  carotty-
cropped Potatoe, made his bow, an I was received with similar plau-
dits     His second unfurled a green wipe, in honour of the   grassy
bills of his country.    Both men, on peeling, seemed prime  meat.
Johnson carried at least a couple of stones   more  than   Halton,
But Paddy was a perfect Logimanus ; his feelers being about the
dimonsions of a couple of ordinary flails.    The candidates having
skyed a copper for the sun, came to the scratch at two o'clock.

Round 1,__Johnson opened the budget but seemed queerish,
acting on the defence ;   made the periphery of the ring.    Halton
came  up,   however,   and tipped  him a touch on the trunk;   this
was well met and returned by a teaser on the capitol, which Hal-
ton  graciously   acknowledged by an   instantaneous  prostration,
Johnson above.     Old England for ever.

2   A short round.    Johnson shewed first claret from the snot-
cock: a smart rally ; some tolerable  weaving;   much  outerhouse
practice   and"  both down,   Gypsey undermost.     Huzza  for Old
Ireland.                                                                               

 3. Halton tried art experiment on the Gypsey's pudding bag,
but the enemy was too quick for him Johnson tried a return,
but the compliment was met by a tep on the magazine that hurl-
ed him out of the ring. Johnson kissed the sod beyond the
ropes....The Hill of Howth to a frosted potatoe for Pat.

4....Both down, Johnson uppermost.

5 ...A well contested  round, and lasted four minutes.    John-
son still fighting  shy,  followed round  the ring   by Halton, who
got his devter ogle,   obnublated   by a   discharge   from Johnson's
maniple— Hurra for Johnson ; come it quick, and you'll win.

6.  Johnson alive, made good play ; sent a shaker alter Patrick's
knowledge box.     Pat shyed the favour however, and caught the '
compliment  on   his   shoulder.    Halton   turned   quaker; a sharp
rally, both down, Johnson under...Shouts for either.

7. Johnson aimed a tremendous corporation hit,    Pat returned
by a facer,    Both turfish.

8. and 9.  Lots of sparring, but no harm, both down.

10. A hard fought round, Pat put in his  favourite  facer, and
stopped a right handed return from Johnson. Halton punished
his adversary round the ring, close to the ropes. The Gypsey
 made a desperate effort. The enemy skulked, but the suspension
was refused with costs against Halton. Johnson fell from a ting-
ler on the left lug, that rendered him deaf to time. Halton was
proclaimed victor, with small punishment.

 A second fight was attempted to be got up between another
Irish cove, named Newton De Besrie and Neat, but after wait-
ing some time, De Berrie said Neat had declined the hoaour.
The true cause however, we believe, was that the stuff was not
posted with sufficient freedom.                    

The fight was said to have been for Fifty sovereigns.