Trial and Sentence.

A Full, True and Particular Account of the Trial
and Sentence of Thomas Beveridge, who is to be
executed on the 2d of December next, for the
Murder of his Wife, on the 2d of October, 1831,
and his body given for dissection.

Yesterday, Monday the 14th November, 1831, came on the trial of
Thomas Beveridge, indicted for murder, in so far as on the 2d of
October, the said Thomas Beveridge did, within or near the
house situated in Little Jack's Close, Canongate, attack and assault
the deceased Janet Greig or Beveridge, his wife, with a poker, a fire
shovel, and a knife, or with one or more of the said instruments,
strike and cut her repeatedly on the head, face, hands, arms, legs
and thighs, and did inflict upon her numerous severe wounds, in
consequence of which she died in the course of the same day in the
Royal Infirmary, to which she had been conveyed, and there died.
The pannel pleaded not guilty.

John Hamilton, blacksmith, was in the pannel's house on the mor-
ning Mrs Beveridge died, she and the pannel were quarreling; she
was then in good health; he complained of her being addicted to
drink, and said he had given up striking her, for it was of no use.

John Grant, wright, lived next door to the pannel, and frequently
heard quarreling between him and his wife, and cries of murder, on
Sunday night the 2d October, between four and six, heard faint cries
of " oh, oh," and then a faint scream, but paid no particular attention
because he often heard such sounds. Also heard a noise as of a
chair rumbling and something trailing on the floor. Supposed that
the scream was that of Mrs Beveridge, but the noise was much
fainter than her usual cries. She was wont to bawl out lustily.
Did not hear Beveridge's voice. About six o'clock witness's son said
there is Beveridge away out, this was after the cries were heard. Be-
tween sik and seven the pannel's daughter and another girl came and
knocked at the door, and having got in, a Mrs Edwards sent one
of the girls for witness, who, on going into Beveridge's house found
Mrs Beverage sitting on a chair. Could scarcely look at her ; her
mouth and face was covered with blood, and her nose shoved up.
She was quite insensible : and a drop of water put into her mouth
gurgled in her throat. Her clothes were as if water had been
thrown on her, and the floor was wet. There was a sort of hallow
inside the door, where a large quantity of blood and water had lodged,
the furniture of the house was all in confusion. Beveridge and his
wife did not agree well, this he ascribed to her being much addicted
to drinking,

Mrs Suttle, a near neighbour, then gave evidence, as did Peter Grant,
printer, relative to hearing quarrelling and heary moaning from the
house of Beveridge : when James Gray, a blacksmith, whose evidence
was taken down, as being grossly false, prevaricating, and attempting
to conceal the truth. Gray was summarily proceeded against, and
sentenced to imprisonment for three kalendar months. John Garret,
was with Gray at the door knocking, but received no answer; was
in Coverly's about seven, when Beveridge came in, when he said,
" there's the very man, why did you deny yourself and not let us in ?'
Beveridge replied, " upon my soul, Jamie, I was up stairs in the door
above, had you come there you would have got me."

Several other witnesses were afterwards examined, who described
the state in which Mrs Beveridge was found on the floor : on being
asked by Catherine Biggar, who had done that to her, she said
faintly, ' You need not ask that.' A long medical report was read
by Dr Liston, from which it appeared that the deceased bore the
marks of a great number of contusions, in consequence of which
she died. The prisoner's declarations were then read ; after which
the Solicitor General addressed the Jury, and was followed by Mr
Skene for the prisoner.

The Lord Justice Clerk charged the Jury, and went over  the evi-
dence with his usual minuteness. The Jury, without leaving the
box, unanimously found the prisoner guilty, After several severe
remarks on the enormity of the crime by Lords Meadowbank,
Moncrieff, and Medwyn, the Lord Justice Clerk addressed the pri-
soner at considerable length, and concluded by saying, " that the
prisoner would now see the miserable effect of his attempts to con-
ceal the truth, and that all these attempts were futile. His lordship
then pronounced the fatal sentence that the prisoner be executed on
the 2d December, and his body given to Dr Munro for dissection."

Edinburgh .-—Printed for George Craig.—.Price One Penny