THE  CAMLACHIE  MILITIA.

PRICE ONLY ONE PENNY.

This fine song is sung, with the most unbounded applause, by that comical of all comic singers, Mr Charles Watson, in the Shakspere
Saloon, Glasgow. The rapturous encores, with which he is nightly greeted, show how much he is loved by those who appreciate the
Muse, and admire original talent of a high character. Now that the Lancashire Militia has arrived in Glasgow, on the 11 th instant
the Poet expects a great run to the Box for this funny song, the address of which is [  ].

Air—The Campbell's are Coming.     

The Russians are coming, oh, dear ! oh, dear !
Well, let them come on, we have nothing to fear ;
The war is declared—you can now volunteer—
There's nought like the Militia, that is very clear.
There's something about us, if I don't mistake,
That is sure for to make the Russians quake ;
So don't stand for drawing—pray where is the good ?—
But join the Militia to give 'em first blood.

SPOKEN—Blood  I should think we would give them first blood
for if they come here they shall find us regular malicious men. Since
they as-saulted us, they shall find we'll give them pepper. You may
laugh at the dress, but its made of pepper and salt, just to let you
know we're well seasoned, and ready to cook the Bear's goose : and
now we're muster'd. we'll tip it him hot and strong, and no mistake.
We'll never leave him till he's dune brown ; so what's the use of
waiting to be drawn ?  Why don't you volunteer at once ? If you
wait to be drawn, you'll be as bad as a badger—he won't connt out
till he's drawn ; if you wait to be drawn, you'll be as bad as the hot
rolls—they won't come out till they're drawn ; if you wait to be
drawn you'll be as bad as a goose—for that's no good till its drawn.
Now, I volunteer'd first, was drawn afterwards, and now I'm quite
satisfied with my quarters. So, come my jolly dogs—join with us
to try and give the Bear a good baiting.

So join the Militia, lads—come, my lads, come—
And boldly well march to the fife and the drum ;
All the world very soon of us they shall hear—
There's none like the Militia it is very clear.

So, cheer my lads, cheer—come, don't be afraid,
Yon'll get plenty of grub, besides you are paid ;
One volunteer is worth two that they press,
And if that don't entice you just look at the dress.
So keep a good heart lads, and don't be forlorn,
If you don't volunteer you're sure to be drawn ;
You can all die but once, lads, wherever you be—
Come, get up the steam—here, just look at me !

SPOKEN -Talk about getting the steam up, just look at me ! Now,
You civilians, you are all soldiers, only yon don't know it ! Now,
 I just appeal to the married men if it aint so ? There, now !
They say silence gives consent, so it must be so—besides, I'll prove
ft.  If you aint under a Drill Sergeant you're under a White Ser-
geant,  and a  a jelly good drilling you get if you fall out of the ranks.
Or If you stopabsent  without leave -where are you then ? or  if you
don't attend to your duty—where are you then ? Aint  you marched
and counter-marched then ; and if you offend your wife, see how
jolly soon she'll put you to the right-about ! Hey ! but ours is the
drill This  morning Sergeant says  to a chap, "Tention,"—the
stop  says,Well, gie it us, men."   "Give  you  what ? " say, Ser-
geant Why, tenpencel " says  chap. 'Gad, be thought he were
going to give him tenpence ! Then Sergeant says to another,
" Stand at ease ; " chap says, " I shan't." Sergeant he were going
to knock him down with the butt end of the gun, but he didn't. So,
Sergeant says, " What, sir, won't you stand at case ? " " Oh," he
says, " I thought you said, Stand and freeze, and I should happen
had to stand here till Christmas !" Sergeant and I laughed, and.
egad, they all laughed. I tell thee what, chaps, Militia man's the
best thing in the world. Don't they say, there's nothing like
leather. Well, if you join, you'll always have plenty of leather—
round your neck. Its best dodge in the world for anybody as wants
to open a shop to join the militia, for they always give you a good
stock to begin with.                                                           Chorus.

Then think of the honour you'll get with your pals,
And think of the name you'll get with the gals;
And think of the dress you'll march out in so grand ,
And they'll call you brave fellows to fight for our land,
So come and we'll show you how to shoulder a gun—
Come along, and we'll soon make Russians to run ;
If they come over here we've got nothing to do,
But to run against them and we'll quick run "em thro'.

SPOKEN—I should think we would run 'em through !    Now, I'll
just give you the new style of drill. When the  Drill Sergeant says,
"Shoulder arms." that means that you musn't be too lazy to work
for your own living.     When he says, "Carry arms," that means
a helping hand to a nuse your own kids--when you got' em.
When he says, " Present arms," that means you must always lend
a helping hand to a fellow when he is in need. When he says,'
' Recover arms," that means you should always bekind to a fellow-
foe, and never hit a chap when he's down. When he says " Secure
arms," that means you must take jolly good care to hold your wife's
hands  precious tight when she's going to claw your face, When he
says, " Prime and load," that means you must prime your heads
with knowledge, your hearts with kindness, and take jolly good
care to load your pockets with plenty of money, and then you'll
always be right, and that you're sure to have if you join the Militia ;

For there's glory in store,
With prize money galore ;
And though at the dress some may sneer,
See thee, lads, the pluck it lies here ;
Let 'em remember this if they can—
It's not the coat makes the man.
You shall find our courage is right—
We're not dress'd to show but to fight.
While to battle abroad the Regulars do roam,
See What stunning fine chaps will protect you at home,
And tho' some may smile, yet remember these words,
It's not always fine feathers that does make fine birds,
But I hope ere long our deeds will be seen,
So success to Camlachie Militia, and Queen !

Poets  Box, the Grand Temple of the Muse Saturday Morning  January   13,1855.