HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY.

Edinburgh, Monday, 1March 1841.

GRACE ANDERSON , a servant in the
British Hotel, Queen Street, pled Guilty to
the Concealment of Pregnancy of a female
child, born on the 25th or 26th of December
last, which was afterwards found dead in a
chest or trunk in her bed-room in the said
house. Sentence, Seven Months' confine-
ment in Prison.

MARY HUNTER pled Guilty to the
Theft of a piece of Printed Cotton, con-
taining about 28 yards, from the shop of
Charles Peters, draper, Lawnmarket, on
the 12th of January last,—aggravated by
having been previously convicted of theft,
and was sentenced to Two Years' confine-
ment in Prison at hard labour.

DONALD M'LEOD, then a servant in
the United Service Club-House, Queen
Street, charged with six different acts of
Theft of sums of money, amounting in all
to about L.140, and other valuable articles,
from lockfast portmanteaus, & c., belonging
to various gentlemen visiting the house,
between the months of August and October
last, pled Guilty to five of the charges, and
was sentenced to Transportation for Seven
Years.

PETER KERR or CARR, weaver, was
unanimously convicted of Uttering a Coun-
terfeit Sixpence piece, in the shop of  Jame
Mason, spirit-dealer, Castle-hill, on the 17th
of December last, in payment of a gill of,
whisky, having another base one in his pos-
session at the time,—aggravated by having
been previously convicted of a similar offence,
and was sentenced to Eighteen Months
confinement in Prison at hard labour.

JOHN RUNCIMAN, labourer, was u-
nanimously convicted of the Theft of a
Brown Gelding, from the Deer Park, at
Dalkeith Palace, on the 9th or 10th of
December, the property of his Grace the
Duke of Buccleuch,—aggraveted by having
been twice previously convicted of theft;
first time before the Sheriff and a jury, and
then before this same Court. He was now
sentenced to Transportation for Ten Years.

MARY ANNE CAIRNS, a girl of the
town, THOMAS PURVES, lodging-house
keeper, Leith Street, and MARTHA CON-
NOR or PURVES, his wife, were next
charged with the Theft of L.52 sterling, in
bank notes of different values, from the per-
son of John Blyth, manufacturer, Pathhead,
within Purves's house, on the night of Sa-
turday the 24th or morning of Sunday the
25th of October last.—with the alternative
charge against Purves and. Connor of Reset
of the same. The pannels all  pleaded Not
Guilty, aud the case went to trial. Cairns
was unanimously found guilty of the theft
and Purves of the reset libelled,—and the
charges against Connor not proven. Cairns
was then sentenced to Seven Years' Trans-
portation, and Purves to Eighteen Months'
imprisonment,—and Connor was dismissed
from the bar.

.... ooo   .....

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.