Execution.

A full and  particular account of the
Execution of John Wilson and Duncan
Fraser, this day 28th January,for break-
ing into a shop in St. Mary's Wynd,
with an account of their behaviour in
Jail and at the place of Execution.

Edinburgh, Jan. 28, 1824 This day were Executed pursuant
to their sentence, John Wilson and Duncan Frazer, for breaking
into a Tailors Shop, in St. Mary's Wynd, and stealing sundry
articles of wearing Apparel; they both pled guilty at their trial.

These unfortunate young men have been exceedingly restless
since the other convict, Douglas, (who was sentenced to be Ex-
ecuted along with them for the crime of highway robbery,) got
a respite. In consequence of this unlocked for extension of the
Royal clemency, Wilson and Frazer, it seems, entertained a hope
 that it might also be extended to them, considering their own
crimes as of a less atrocious character than that of Douglas.
This hope Wilson particularly continued to indulge till Wedne-
esday morning last, the 21st, when he gave himself up to a state
bordering on despair, uttering horrid imprecations, and vehement-
ly declaring that force alone should drag him from his cell to the
place of execution. It is hoped, however, that the exhortations
of the clergymen who Visited him brought him to a temper of
mind more suitable to his awful situation.

Expectation were generally entertained that the place of exe-
cution would be changed  prior  these unfortunate  men's  awful
exit, but at a meeting of the town council,  it was decided that no
alteration  at the  present time  would  take place.    The  scaffold
was, as usual, erected last night at the head of Libberton's Wynd.
This morning crowds collected very early, and took their stances
as near to the scaffold as the guard would permit,  and a continu-
ed movement  and noise reigned until the unhappy victims made
their appearance, when a dead  silence prevailed,    They were re-
moved from the  Calton-hill Jail  on Tuesday afternoon  about 4
o'clock, (previous  to leaving  the jail; they parted  for the  last
time with  their relations,)  in a carriage,  which landed  opposite
the Court-door in the Parliament Square, by which the prisoners
were conveyed into the Lock up-house.    In the morning when
  the  clergymen and magistrates arrived,   they were  brought into
the hall,and seemed to pay attention to a most feeling and path-
etic  prayer  delivered   by one  of the  clergymen.    After  eight
o'clock struck,  they prepared to   move to the  scaffold; the ex-
Iutioner  appeared and   pinioned thir arms, and   about a quarter 
 before nine they proceeded to the fatal spot,    They joined in the
religious  duties with great fervour.    Before mounting the drop,
Frazer  came forward  to the front of  the scaffold  and addressed
the multitude  in nearly the  following words, Good People, take
warning by our  untimely end.    Refrain  from Sabbath-breaking,
and the company of bad women,  drinking and swearing, which
have been ruin,    God be with you all,    They then  ascended the
drop with fortitude,   and a quarter past nine they were launched
into eternity.

 They ware both young men. and belonged to Edinburgh.
Frazer was brought up in the Castle-hill, and Wilson in the West
Bow; and, we believe, no blame can be attached to the
parents of these unfortunate young men, who, we under-
stand used every endeavour to check them in their wicked carreer,
they at times flattered, at others threatened, but it had no otther
effect than making them absent themselves from under their
parent's roof, and associate with those who by their bad exam
ple have brought them to this untimely end. Wilson's father
on the morning of their trial, wrote a most feeling letter, ad-
dressed to the Lord Justice Clerk.

It would, have been thought that the many examples made,
and the sure fate of the above two, would have thrown a damp-
ness over the twenty-two convicts that were sent away on Thurs-
day last, the most of whom having narrowly escaped the same
fate, but instead of that, their minds were premediating the mur-
der of one of the turnkeys and effect their escape ; their deadly
weapon was a table knife, made sharp in the point and the back,
fortunately the horrid plot was discovered, and the weapon tak-
en from them; they were considered the most hardened and
mischievous set that have ever been within the walls of the jail. 

Edinburgh, Printed for the Booksellers.                    