Unfortunate Duel.

A true and particular Account of a most unfortunate Duel which
took place on Tuesday the 26th March, 1822, at  Auchter-
toul, in Fife,  in consequence of a Song which appeared in
one of the Glasgow Newspapers, when  Sir  Alex.  Boswell
of Auchinleck was desperately wounded, and is since dead.

ON  Tuesday last, about eleven o'clock forenoon, a meeting took place at Auch-
tertool, near Balmutto, between Sir Alexander Boswell of Auchinleck, and Mr.
James Stuart of Dunearn. Sir Alexander was attended by Commissioner Douglas,
and Mr. Stuart by the Earl of Rosslyn. The Sheriff had heard of it, and the night
before it took place, they were bound over to keep the peace. This took place at
twelve at night, and on Tuesday morning the one party set off at three, and  the other
at four o'clock for Fife, where they met. The parties fired by signal, and Sir Alex-
ander received his antagonist's shot in the breast, at the collar bone, which went
through and injured the spine, and he instantly fell. Sir Alexander was carried  
Balmutto House, where he is attended by Lady Boswell and several surgeons of the
first eminence.

Another Account.—You will have heard of the meeting which took place between
Sir Alex. Boswell, and Mr. James Stuart, attended by Mr. Douglass and Lord Ross-
lyn. The meeting took place at ten o'clock on Tuesday morning. The word was
given by Lord Rosslyn, and both parties fired at once, when Mr. Stuart's ball entered
Sir Alexander's right shoulder, and passing from thence, penetrated downwards to-
wards the spine. The distance was twelve paces, and there were two surgeons on the
ground. Sir Alexander was afterwards carried to Lord Balmutto's, about two miles
distance. The whole parties concerned have gone off.

The cause of this Duel is, we hear, a song which appeared in a Glasgow Weekly
Newspaper, the Sentinel of the 26th December last. Sir Alexander arrived in Edin-
burgh on Saturday last, from London, and the manuscript haying got by some ex-
traoidinary means into Mr. Stuart's possession, he soon after met Sir Alexander,
and presenting it to him:, asked him if it was his, to which he immediately answered, 
" Yes." A challenge ensued, and was instantly accepted. Justiciary warrants was
immediately issued, and a strict search made in the houses of both Lord Rosslyn
 and Mr. Stuart, but both had previously fled, and set off for London, from whence
it is said, they will proceed to the Continent.

The situation where the ball lodged rendered it impossible to be extracted, and
he lingered in great pain till Wednesday afternoon about three o'clock, when he ex-
pired. Sir Alexander was attended in his last moments by Mrs. Boswell, the situ-
ation of whom, and her numerous family, may be conceived, but cannot be described.

The sensation which this event has created both in Edinburgh and Glasgow, and
we may add, throughout the country, is excessive. Sir Alexander is so Well known,
and so universally beloved, that the public has taken a deep interest in his fate on
this melancholy occasion.

It is said that Mr. Stuart has signified his intention to surrender himself to take his
trial whenever he is called upon.

The last fatal duel which happened in Scotland, took place betwixt Sir George

Ramsay and Captain Macrae of the 14th regiment of foot, in April 1790, when the 
former was killed, and the latter was indicted, but was outlawed for not appearing.

John Muir, Printer.