The last Speech and Dying Words of
James  Thomson Tincklar.

Who was Executed for the Murder of Hellen Currie, upon the 2d of Aprile, in the Year
1719. At Adincraw, in the Shire of  Berwick

I AM brought here this Day to Suffer, for the horrid and and Unnatural Murder of
my fellow Creature: And being now to step into Eternity. I think fit to ac-
quaint my Spectators  of my Life and Conversation I was Born in Fisheraw, of
Honest Parents, but was left Young, so that having none to look after me. I first en-
gaged ( and woes me for it) with one John Bell a Tincklar, who learned me to Pike
and Steal: and so I remained with him for Eighteen Years, and he also learned me
all manner of Debauchery, which is the Cause I Suffer this Day. when I left him,
and Married a Wife called Katharine Home, who was one of the same gang, about
two Months after I was maried, I met on the Road a Farmer coming from a Fair in
the South, my Wife advised me to fall upon him and Rob him, for she said  knew
that he had Money upon him, so I fell upon him and broke his Right Arm, and two
Ribs of his Side, and took from him Eleven Guineas, my Wife would have had me to
Murder him, but he crying out for Mercy I could not do it.

Another Day, as I was coming by a Door my Wife having a Dog, which was left
her by her Father, did bite off the Ball of a Man's Leg : And I being Angry at her
 for keeping such a Dog, and would have Killed him. She told me that she had other
Service for him. I not thinking on this unhappy Day  the same Dog acted the thing
that new I  justly suffer for. My Wife and I being upon the Road, betwixt Dunce and
Dunbar, where I had the Misfortune to meet this young Woman, who told me she
was going to see her Friends. My Wicked Wife having the Devil in her Heart,
stirred me up to take the Cloaths off her, or else she would never Bed with me. Af-
ter I had stripped her Naked till the Shirt, she caused me to take her to a Glen side a
little way off, and there being a Tree at the Glen side, my Wife caused me ty her to a
Tree, and hont the Dog at her, who teared the Paps from her, and the Intrels of her
Belly; then my Wife and me fled to an Ale-House, about two Miles off, and two
Gentlemen coming by and seeing that dreadful Sight, but the Woman was Dead before
they came. But the Gentlemen riding after the Dog who came into that same House
where I was sitting. And being set down they called for a Drink of Ale, and a Piece
of Bread, and he gave a piece of it to the  Dog, and said he would give three Guineas
for that Dog. I over hearing; their Discourse steped forward to him, and told them
that the Dog was mine, and he should have him at the same Price, who immediatly de-
sired me to sit down with him and take a Drink, and I not suspecting that the Gentle-
men knew any thing about the horid Murder ; but immediatly they sent for a Party
and secured me, and I was carried to Prison by order of a Justice of Peace, I acknow-
ledge the Sentance of the Judges to be just I ackgowledge I have been a great Sin-
ner from my Youth, a Curser, and Swearer, and Sabbath-breaker, and given to all
manner of Vice, so I desire you all my Specatators to take Example by me, and not run
on in a course of Sin, as I have done: And you Young Men to take notice whom you
Marrie, for my Wife has been  the occasion that I suffer here this Day. Then turning
his Face to the Ladder he Prayed very earnestly in these Words.

O GOD I am shortly to appear before Thee, to render an Account of all my ma-
nifold sins and Transgressaions, and of this horrid Murder that I am guilty   of ;
but O LORD, there is Mercy with Thee for the greatest of sinners.    I repent
heartily from the bottom of my Heart for all the sins I have committed, and particular-
by of this sin of Murder.   And before he was casten over he said, O LORD into thy
Hands I recommend my Spirit.   Amen.