MURDER

A Full, True, and Particular account
of that cold bloody and diabolical murder
committed on the body of Mr M 'Nab's
Post Boy, Innkeeper and Post Master in
Cupar of Fife who was barbarously mur-
dered a few yards from his Masters house
on Thursday last.

To add to the attrocities which has been lately
committed in this part of the country, we have the
painful duty to record another, apparently less pro-
voked then those which have lately taken place.
We extract the following article from the Courant
Newspaper, the authenticity of which there is no
grounds to doubt.                                       .

Early on Thursday last, a post boy in the em-
ployment of Mr M'Nab, inn. keeper,Cupar-of.Fife.
was found murdered a few doors from the Inn.
The scull was fractured, and the face much disfi-
cured, apparently from the effects of blows.

A precognition was taken by the Sheriff, but
    as yet no discovery has been made of the perpetra-
tor of the diabolical deed.                                  

Although by the above account there is no ment
tion of robbery having been intended or committed,
yet it is but reasonable, to surmise that no villain
could be so wretchedly lost to feeling as to perpe.
trate   such  a   deed  without   having   some selfish
motive to satiate.  Yet true it is that some monster
possessed of that unrelentless and reckless brutul
feeling which governs the minds of some hardened
villains, may have, through wantonness or revange
taken the life of  the individual eluded to.   It is to.
be hoped, however, that this, like most other mur-
ders, will be brought to light, and the perpetrator
brought to that iribunal where he will meet with
the punishment he so richly deserves.

EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCE.-----A few days
ago, a  traveller went into an inn at Aberdeen.
where he intended to sleep all night and proceed
on his jurney in the morning. Before going to.
bed, he laid a pair of pistols on his bedroom table,
remarking to the landlord of the inn that the pis.
 tols were loaded, and that, it would be dangerous
for any person to tutch them.              

In the morning, when the traveller awoke, he
went to the stable to look after his horse and found
that  it hadcast a shoe.   He went to a smith's shop
to get it shed, which was done ; he discoverd
that one of his pistols wanted a screw, and requested
the smith to put one in its place, intimeting to him
at the same time that it was loaded. Vulcan put the
barrel of the pistol to his mouth and blew into it,
observing that it was not  loaded.    The traveller
on examining it  and the other pistol, found that
the shot had been extracted. Suspecting that some
conapiracy was intended, he again loaded the pis-
tols, and proceeded on his journey.

On arriving at a thick set wood a few miles from
town, two men came towards him, carrying blud.
geons in their  hands and demanded his purse. He
immediately fired one of the pistols over their
heads to intimidate them, but the robbers being
still  intent upon their felonious purpose, he shot
one of them dead upon the spot.

It can be easily surmised, and with safely, that
the landlord of the house had some concorn in the
intended robbery.

FORBES & Co: Printers;171, Cowgate.