THE LAMENTATIONS OF

M'Farlane, Black wood AND Young,

At present lying in Glasgow Jail, under the awful sentence
of Death for the murder of

ALEXANDER BOYD,

In the New Vennel, Glasgow, on Sunday
Morning, 12th June, 1853.

AIR.__"Husband's  Dream."                        

Come all you young people a warning take by us three.
We are unhappy creatures that are condemned to die,
All for that horrid murder that we have lately done,
On the body of Alexander Boyd on the twelfth day of June.

Boyd has left a wife and family all on a foreign shore,
What must their grief and sorrow be when they hear he is 
no more,
For the husband he was murdered by barbarians three,
May God protect the widow and her small family.

We took him to M'Farlane's house, that is in Croiley's land,
It is in the New Vennel that we murdered that man,
We stripped him of his clothing and his money too,
And from M'Farlane's window Alexander Boyd we threw.

And when the horrid deed was done, we thought to run away,
But we were apprehended without the least delay,
All for that horrid murder, we so cruelly have done,
In the New Vennel at Glasgow on the twelfth day of June.

Then we were examined and off to prison sent,
And for the life that we have led we bitterly repeat,
And M'Farlane he did say, my parents oft told me,
To shun such evil company, or they would prove my destiny.

Then to the city of Edinburgh we were removed with speed,
To be arraigned at the bar for that horrid deed ;
It was a cruel murder and one of the blackest dye,
May the Lord have mercy on his soul and protect his family.

When our trial did come on, and we at the bar did stand,
The jury found us guilty by the laws of God and man,
Its blood for blood that is required, the judge to us did say,
Prepare yourselves to meet your God on the great judgment
day.

Oh little did our parents think when we prattled on their knee,
That we should die a shameful death upon the gallows tree,
Much better we had ne'er been born had fate ordained it so,
Than be such an awful spectacle to both the high and low.

On the 11th day of August we must give up our breath,
It is the day prepared for us to die a shameful death.
We bid good bye to our comrades all, and kind relations too,
Farewell, farewell, our dearest friends we bid you all adieu.