Horrid

MURDER.

An account of a Murder that
was committed in Bridgeton
on Sunday morning last, the

16th March 1823. on the body of a young man, named
Peter O' Niel when 5 different wounds were made in his
body, & the apprehension of man charged With the murder

  The following is an account of a most atrocious Murder
which was perpetrated on Sunday morning, between
1 and 2 o' clock on Sunday morning at Bridgeton, in the
main Street.

  It appears that the deceased had been drinking with
some other men, shortly before he met his death. when
some dispute about about a difference in religion, when the
dispute became so high that challenges to fight were given
by both parties. - This is  said to have taken place at the
horse of a man named Keenan, a publican in the same street.

   Another report  says that he had been serving at a  work          
where the rest of the labourers had stood out for  wages
and some of them learning that he was drinking in Keenan's
house, went in, and calling for a su[  ] spirits they shortly
afterwards got up a quarrel with him, when the landlord
interfered, and the deceased left the house.

    Whatever preceded the event is but imperfectly known;
but at the hour above  mentioned; a scuffle  and loud noise
were heard on the street, with a low cry of Murder when
the police, shortly afterwards came up,  and  they   found a
human body flooded with gore.                                                          

    The person found murdered is named O'Niel, and re,
sided, in Bridgeton. He is about 22 years of age. when
the body was found, he was never observed to speak or
move, but was lying oe the ground with his hands folded
together, and five wounds from some sharp listanment,
were and in his body, which was removed to his father's
house in the Bridgegate.

   A precognition having  been taken, a man  of the name
of Campbell was committed to Jail charged with  the Mur
der. It appears that they were also drinking in Smith's.

                                                           Mayne & Co. Printer, Glasgow.







