Trial and

Sentence.

The Trial Sentence of
William Adams, alias Reid,
for the Robbery of Michael
Pirnie, who is to be executed
at Edinburgh on the 6th of
January, 1830.

Edinburgh, Dec. 1. 1829.

Came on before the high Court of Justiciary, the trial
of William Adams, or Reid, the indictment stated,
that the said William Adams, did in the Venal enter-
ing  from the north side of the cowgate of Edinburgh,
or on or near a stair leading from the said Venal to the
back stairs of Edinqurgh, violently wickedly and felo-
niously attack and assault Michael Pirnie, mason,then
or residing at Gifford park, near Edinburgh, in the
parish of St chuthbert's and county of Edinburgh, and
did strike him a severe blow on the head with your
clenched fist, or with some; other weapon to the Pro-
secutor unknown, by which he was instantly knocked,
to the ground ; and while lying on the ground, did by
force and violence seize and did rob him of a one pound
bank or benker's note of the firm of Sir William.
Forbes & co. for shillings and sixpence sterling-
or thereby in silver money, and twopence or thereby
in copper money, and a plain tin snuff-box being all
the property in the possession of the said Michalel
Pirnie. The panel dleaded not guilty.

Michael Pirnie mason being sworn stated that on
the 5th September he was going np the Venel, when
the prisoner who had followed him struck him a tre-
mendous blow which brought him to the ground. He
had in his pockets a twenty shilling note, of the bank
of sir William Forbes J. Hunter and C0. four shillings
aud sixpence in silver, and twopence in copper money,
also a plain tin snufF-box ; after being foundered with
the blow and knocked down the prisoner kicked and
struck him very severely He identified the tin snuff-
box which was shown im.

A number of witnesses were examined whose
various statements went to prove the charge against
the prisoner, and completely established the fact of his
identity.

The Lord Justice Clerk pointed out the evidence to
the Jury at full length, and particularly bore upon the
'evidences  of the various   witnesses whose  evidence
brought home the charge to the prisoner,    The Jury
after consulting for  some time gave  in their  unani-
mous verdict of guilty.    The Lord Justice Clerk  then
addressed the prisoner in a  very  feeling  speech   and
said that although the Jury had humanely recommen-
ded him, yet he warned him not to place any hopes on
that recommendation, but to   prepare himself for the
awful end, which the  laws  of his  country  submitted
to.    He then pronounced  the sentence,  which  was
that he was to be executed at Edinburgh on the 6th of
January, 1830, betwixt the  hours  of eignt and  nine
o'clock morning, at the usual place of execution.

The prisoner is a.tall stout looking young man, and
is well known in Edinburgh,   more  especially   at the
head of the canongate, being brought up by his grand-
mother who keeps a small shop at that place, and   in
fact was better known by her name (Reid) than by his
own.    His father is a porter  in Edinburgh, an honest
and quiet man, but we are sorry to say that the prison-
er has proved himself all along a very undutiful and
disobedient son, he is now about 20 years of age, which
he has spent in a very loose and dissolute manner.

