Trial & Sentence

A true account of the interesting trial of
Robert Makintosh, who was tried at the Circuit
Court of Justiciary at Aberdeen for the cruel Mur-
drer of Elizabeth Anderson, his own Sweetheart,
Also an account of the trial of William Gordon
for the murder of his wife, who were both senten-
ced to be Executed on the 31st of May next.

ABERDEEN-April 16.-Robert Mackintosh, was accused
of the murder of Elizabeth Anderson, by cutting her
throat with a razor. The indictment having been read, the pan-
el pleaded Not Guilty to the charge contained therein.

The deposition of Ann Farquharson, the deceased's mother
was read. It stated, in subtance, that her daughter, Elizabeth
Anderson, had returned home on Sunday night, had sat down
at the fire, and was preparing to read her bible, when deponent
heard a voice at the door calling her daughter out; soon after
heard a loud shriek; but being old and infirm, did not attempt
to rise, aud soon after fell asleep ; her daughter used to sleep in
the same bed ; but when she awoke in the morning, her daugh-
ter was not beside her.

Helen Gordon, knew Elizabeth Anderson; went to her moth-
er's house on a Monday morning of October last; found the
door open; on going in the deceased's mother said, "Is that
you Lizzy;" answered no; mother desired witness to see if she
was in the other bed ; on going their found deceased's body ly-
ing, on the floor and blood about the head; witness went out
and gave the alarm,and did not tell the deceased's mother at that
time. Charles Gordon was call to the deceased's house, the
morning she was found dead ; saw her body lying on the floor;
her throat cut, a great deal of blood on the bed ; no razor or
knife near; saw a paper taken out of the deceased's chest; said
paper signed, Rorbert Mackintosh ; its purport was that he pro-
mised to make her his lawful wife.

Andrew Robertson and Alexander Esson, surgoens, considered
the wound in deceased's throat the cause of her death; deceased
about ten or twelve weeks gone with child. Barbara Dick was
intimate with the decased who, had told her that the prisoner
had given her a written promise that he would marry her.

Duncan Stewart had a conversation with prisoner, about eight
days before deceased's death; was rallying him in regard to his
dealings with her; prisoner said, " All that will soon be over," on
asking him what he meant by that, prisoner replied, You'll soon
hear. Peter Grant was asked by prisoner to lend him a razor
and gave him one on the Thursday before decaesed's death
never got it back. John McDonald was with the prisoner on
the Sunday before the deceased's death ; prisoner took a razor
out of his pocket, because he said it was heavy ; gave it to wit-
ness asked him if it was sharp ; witness looked at it, found it
very sharp and returned to prisoner, who put it into his pocket.
A great deal of evidence of similar nature was afterward received.

The Advocate Depute addressed the Jury on the part of the
Crown; and Mr Smith on behalf of the prisoner.

Lord Meadowbank having summed up the evidence, the Ju-
ry after a short consultation, returned an unanimous verdict,
viva voce, finding the libel Proven.

Lord Meadowbank then addressed the unhappy man in a
speech of the most impressive nature, warning him against in-
dulging in the least hope of mercy in this world, and imploring
him to spend his few remaining days in serious and devout pre-
paration for the next. His Lordship then adjudged him to be
executed here on Friday, the 31st of May next, and his body
to be given for desection.

William Gordon, fishing tackle maker of this place, (Aberdeen)
accused of the murder of his wife, by inflicting a mortal wound
in her thigh. The principal witness was Alexander Muir, ad-
vocate in Aberdeen ; lives in the floor immediately above the
prisoners house, and having heard the cries murder went and
gave the alarm, the door was broken open and the unfortunate
woman was found all covered with blood. Prompt medical aid
was immediately got, but she soon expired. After the examin-
ation of several witnesses, Lord Gillies summed up the evidence
shortly commenting on it as he went along; and the Jury hav-
consulted together for a few minutes, returned a viva voce ver-
dict finding the libel proven. Lord Gillies then pronounced
the awful sentenc of death, adjudging the prisoner to be exe-
euted at Aberdeen on Friday the 31st of May next, and his bo-
dy to by given for desection.