Most Shameful 

   RIOT

AT THE

Anti-Popery Lecture
Roxburgh Street Church.

Edinburgh, Saturday,   March 18, 1841.

Seldom has our city been the scene of
such a disgraceful riot as that which took
place last night, The following are a few
particulars connected with it, as they have
reachedus; but the whole will of course
soon undergo a judicial investigation.

For some weeks past a Mr Leckie has
been delivering a course of lectures against
Popery, in Roxburgh Street Chapel, in
which he zealously endeavoured to refute
and expose the errors and fallacies promul-
gated by the doctrines of the Church of
Rome. These lectures, we understand,
have been pretty well attended throughout,
and in general conducted with a good deal
of decorum ; though it was evident that his
severe animadversions on the tenets of their
faith were productive of any thing but the
most amicable feelings in the bosoms of that
section of his auditors who were adherents
of the Roman Catholic persuasion. Symp-
toms of these feelings.  occasionally evinced
themselves at some of the meetings ; but on
Wednesday evening their demonstration
was somewhat more noisey than on previous
occasions. The subject of that evening's
lecture being to be resumed last night, the
house was early filled, and from the turbu-
lence which  prevailed   before  the   hour of
lecture, it became apparent that the opposi-
tion party had mustered their forces in great
strength, and now bade defiance to all order.
In this state of things, it was deemed ad-
viseable to postpone the lecture till another
meeting would be held in which order might
be secured.    But on Mr Leckie's attempt-
ing to make this announcement to the meet-
ing, it became the signal for commencing a
general row ; and, amidst the most defening
mixture of shouts, yells, groans, and hisses,
the book-boards of several of the pews were
torn down, and thrown promiscuously about
the house.    The noise and confusion of the
scene soon extended itself to the outside of
the house,   where an   immense  crowd was
soon collected.    Meanwhile the proceedings
of the assailants within went on briskly—
the peaceable part of the auditory,  in en-
deavouring to make out, were met by the
uplifted sticks of the others, and were glad
to shelter themselves behind the pillars and
even under the seats.     A body of police,
however, at  length  arrived, and succeeded,
though with some difficulty, in taking into
custody some of the  principal  actors in the
affray, whom they conveyed to the police-
office ; a dense crowd accompanying them
the whole of the way.    We understand that
considerable damage has been done to the
fittings of the Church.

In expectation of the case being heard to-
day, the Police Court was considerably
thronged. It is said, however, to come on
before the Sheriff on Tuesday.

---------ooo--------

Sanderson, Printer, Edinburgh.