WONDERFUL ESCAPE   &    APPREHENSION
                    

 OF

DAN O' CONNELL.

FROM HIS PLACE OF CONFINEMENT ON MONDAY
LAST, AND WHO so AGITATED THE MINDS OF THE
PEOPLE, BY HIS FEROCIOUS CONDUCT THAT A VIG-
OROUS PURSUIT WAS MADE  AFTER HIM. AND IN A
FEW HOURS HE WAS APPREHENDED. AND SAFELY
LODGED IN DURANCE VILE.

A few weeks since a paragraph went the round of the London and
Provincial   Newspapers, respecting  the escape of a Lion   and   Tiger
from Wombell's Menagerie whilst travelling in   Northambtonshire.
The whole story   has since   turned   out to be a  fabrication;  but   on
Monday morning last, one of the Lions belonging to  that collection
actnally   escaped  just before   day-break,  in  the village of Bowes, in
Yorkshire.     It appears from information received from the spot, that
the collection was on its way to Ripin fair, and had halted at Bowes
for the night ; but a number of boys had gathered round the caravan
and had during   the evening   made a small hole   in one corner of it.
for the purpose of getting a gratuitous peep at the King of the forest.
it is supposed, by  the Keeper, that this small apartment was some what
enlarged after   himself and others connected with the Menagerie had
retired;   but no suspicion   was   created,  or   alarm thougot   of, till a
ternfic roar  resounded  through the village.   A joiner named Harris-
on   was first  aroused,  and   having opened his window saw the  Lion,
who is a decsendant or the   renowned  Wallace, and named   ' Daniel
O'Connell.'  taking most majestic  strides   towards a   flock    of geese
which, after  selecting one for his own picking he most   unceremoniuosly devoured.
The village was now in one general state of alarm; the
windows were thrown open and scores might  be  seen   surveying the
movements of  the great ', AGITATOR" and disturber of their re—
pose.     At lenght   wm. Lennox. the   keeper, accompanied by George
Briden  har e- keeper to the  caravans,  and several other  servants be-
onging to the Menagerie,  sallied  forth   in pursuit;  and just as  the
powerful animal was   leaving the   town   eastward.   they succeeded   in
puruing his course    to a   back  lane.      Lennox,   with   only   a whip in
his hand,   seized Dan  by the tail;   and at   the imminent danger of his
life, kept him    at   bay   till   the other  individnals   came up,   and  with
properatus,   secured   him.  After this was done,  five   hours  elapsed
before this was done.   whon he was placed   in ins proper quaiters.     It
was impossible to drag him,  even   with   strong   ropes,  owing to    the
force with which be fixed   his   claws  in the ground ;  boards were  at
brought,   and   thus  he   was ultimately    drawn to   the    caravan. No
further mischief beyond   scartering the  geese occurred.

The  Reader wil perceive   by this,  that it is not  Daniel  O'Connell
Esq.   M P but a  Lion called   by that  name.

R-printed from a copy—the  lmprint bearing Wm  Carse, Glasgow
This  day, ( Monday,   16th   June,   1834) the   Lord  Justice  Clerk
and  Lords Com mssioners of Justiciary,  met at  the usual   hour and
disposed of the following cases.-

Alexander Young a good looking young man, was first placed at
the bar charged with having broken open the stable of Mr Stobbo,
Branton. in the county of Haddiagton, on the 2lst March last,
atnd with having stolen therefrom mare, and a saddle ; also with
stealing a number of sacks, and a quantity of corn from a barn, the
property of the said Mr Stobbo.  

The  pannel pleaded guilty to the charge of theft, and the Solicitor
General having passed   from   the charge   of   housebreaking.  he   was
sentenced to 7 years transportation.     Previous to sentence being pro-
nounced, the advocate   for the pannel stated to the   Court,   that   his
client when   first   incarceraced, although at the   age of  manhood, did
not know the alphabet, by his unreinitting atrention to the instruct-
ions of the   Jailor's son   he could now read   the sacred  Scriptures.
The poor fellow  wept incessently during the trial.

Robert and William Barrie, carters from Haddington, were called
on a charge of assault and were outlawed for non appearance, their
bail bond  forfeited  and their goods, gear and effects confiscated to
the Crown.                                                       FORBES, EDIN.