DREADFUL

Collision ! !

One Hundred and Twenty-two
Lives Lost!

A full and particular Account
of the loss of the Ship Go-
vernor Fenner, with Emi-
grants for America, which
took place off Holyhead,
on Saturday Morning last,
when 122 Men, Women
and Children lost their lives.

I t is our painful task to have to record one of the
most melancholy disasters which, of late years, has
taken place in the channel, and which has been
accompanied by the loss of not less than one hun-
dred and twenty-two men, women and children.

The American ship Governor Fenner, Captain
Andrews, which sailed hence on Friday, at noon,
for New York, came in contact, on the following
morning, at two o'clock, off Holyhead, with the
Nottingham, steamer, from Dublin to this port.
The ship struck the steamer amidships. So great
was the force of the collision, that the ship's bows
were stove in, and, in a few minutes from the time
of the vessels coming in contact, she sank, the
captain and the mate being the only persons, out
of 124 souls on board, who saved their lives. The
Nottingham was dreadfully shattered, but, having
been struck in her strongest part, the collision was
not fatal to her.

The passengen were all below in their berths
when the collision between the ship and the steamer
took place. The shock caused by it would, of
course, rouse even those who might have been
asleep. No doubt they would make a rush towards
the deck : the interval, however, which elapsed be-
rween the shock and the sinking was so short,
scarcely five minutes, that very few, if any could
have succeeded in reaching it; so that, in all pro-
bability, most of them perished in their berths.
The mate, we understand, had been married a few
days only before the ship's sailing on her voyage:
the captain had given her a berth with her husband
in the cabin. When the fate of the ship became
inevitable, he attempted to run aft to rescue his
wife. Time failed him—the instinct of self-preser-
vation became strong—he sprang up the shrouds,
and reached the steamer, as we have already stated,
by jumping from the foreyard-arm.

The Nottingham, which now lies on the east side
of the Clarence Dock, was yesterday visited by
thousands of curious spectators. Her starboard
side is a complete wreck ; even the houses on the
deck adjoining are shivered to fragments. The
Head animals, cows and sheep, covered the deck,
and presented a shocking sight, most of them hav-
ing been disembowelled by the concussion which
caused their death.—From the Edinburgh Obserwer,
Tuesday, 23d February, 1841.