Particular Account of the Execution and behaviour of a young man, named David Wylle, who suffer
ed at; Glasgow, on Wednesday the 12th November
1823, for Housebreaking and Theft, with his
Warning to the young to beware of the numerous
gangs of thieves who art at present committing
crimes through the country, also his affectionate
address on the scaffold.

Glasgow, Wednesday, Nov. 12th, l823

This day, the above unfortunate young man underwent the aw-
ful sentence of death, for being a partner in the expensive theft,
aggravated  by housebreaking, from the house occupied by James
Herbert Rodgers, Esq. Gordon Street, Glasgow. This young
man was libelled along with 'David' Dunsmore, Ann Dunsmore,
his wife, William Johnston, John Toy, and James Perguson, all
concerned in different ways of plundering and resetting the fol-
follwing, articles;..The family had gone to sea-bathing quarters
on the 19th of Sept. 1822, and did not return till the 19th Oct. 
Following, when they found their house completely ransacked, all
the locks forced off the press doors, and all the plate, gold and
silver coin, wearing apparel, &c. carried off, Wylie and Johnston
were found Guilty and sentenced to be Executed, but the latter
 has since been respited. Dunsmore and his wife were transported
for 14 years; Toy to be imprisoned for 18 months in Bridewell ;
and Ferguson was outlawed. This was one of the most extensive
thefts which has been committed for a long time, and their con-
nexion is said to have extended a considerable way.

This young man's conduct since sentence was passed upon  him,
has been in every respect  highly becoming his future  prospects,
and contrition for his past life; the thought of time mis-spent, of
crimes committed, of acquaintances whom he once loved, separat-
ed from him for ever, and finally, the parting with those parents
a very composed  manner,   decently attired; after  viewing the
surrounding multitude, he took an affectionate  farewel of them,
observing, " The crowd   which   I  now behold,   I once mingled
among, to behold the end of some   wretched victim  or victims;
at that time I little though at a fare  like theirs  would   so soon be
mine."    After a   few minoutes spent in  prayer, he gave  the  last
signal  was thrown off.  and his struggles in time ended.    At the
"who counselled,   instructed,  and by every tic which links human
nature together, warned him of impending danger ; all these weigh-
ed heavily on his  mind,  and impressed in a variety of shapes the
awful situation  in which he had  placed himself; but the  gospel
has a  balm for every wound, a hope for every fear, an eternity off
happiness  for a dark day of adversity,  and a change of earthly
pursuits for   heavenly joys;  all-these,  aided by the valuable  in-
strctions of several Ministers of the city, and the kind treatment
ef pious and benevolent friends, (especially of those under whose
immediate care  he was placed,) dispelled his doubts,  animated
his hopes,  and enabled him   to look   forward with exultation  to
that change which awaited him.

From the hour of condemnation, to the hour he appeared on
the ignominous board, he has (we anxiously hope) fully atoned
for his bypast life....Ministers exhorted, prayed, and offered up
praises in his behalf during the time he was confined in his soli
tary room ; and the devotions of the hall, which continued for
about an hour, in reading, prayer and praise, fully prepared him
for ascending the fatal drop, which he did about three o'clock in
time when his companion received the respite, language cannot
pourtray the feelings which predominated in his youthful breast,
it affected him more then the sentence itself.

During the time of his confinement, he told those who visited
him, to warn the youth of the city to beware bad company, es-
pecially resetters, who haunt young  men in their houses : who
give them meat and drink for the pilfer which they prompt them
to take in a clandestine manner; little money is given to the
depredators, and what is gained by those destroyers of youth,
who sell the property of honest people, is spent in debauchery
drunkenness, and every thing which degrades human nature.
Bad women and sabbath breaking he considered as two evils next
in magnitude to the one already mentioned, the whole of which
he warned young and old carefully to avoid, especially those num
bers of young persons who are at present living by no other
means than housebreaking and theft.

Wylie belongs to Paisley, is about 17 years of age, and by trade
a weaver.    His parents are respectable, and no person can blame
but rather feel for them, when the fault lay with the young man
man himself, who despised  the   wholesome  counsel which they
afforded him, and which he knew when too late.                             

Printed at Glasgow....Reprinted at Edinburgh for J. Young,   