Life in Edinburgh!

A full, true and particular account of the narrow
escape of a Gentleman from a Den the Grass-
market, who was nearly Burked by a crew of
noted characters, well known in this city, he hav-
ing been seized by the throat by a man and a
number of women, who, after losing his coat-
tails, and being severely wounded, with difficulty
made his escape.—(Told by Himself.)

I, W. R--------n, was sorely abused, taken in, and
very nearly Burked, last week, by a gang of Thim-
blemen, Tinkers, Cadgers, Lazy Craftsmen, Petty
Chapmen, with other characters very like Resur-
rection Men, &c. Having got a little of the ' nappie,'
and being on a cruize down the Grassmarket, I
met a group of strange personages at a certain close
mouth, which leads to a well known den. Making
a stand there, I was eagerly gripped by a female—
taken up the close, where three fellows, very like
pickpockets, soon followed after, and rushed into
my company. I soon found where I was, and
on taking a thought, I attempted to get out of the
den, but was stopt by a blade with a cork leg. I
fortunately took the feet from him, and left him
on the floor. I was then seized by a carved faced
randy, who tore the tails from my coat. I got out—
took to my heels—and very narrowly escaped.

This adventure ought to be a warning to flats
like myself, to go home in good hours, and speedily
join the ' Temperate Society.'

In Edinburgh city there's one does live,
A curious blade he seems to prove—
A furious neighbour—here he is,
And scarcely worthy of hie place.
In the Grassmarket he has his rook
In A....'s close, in a hidden nook,;
A' kinds of folk he does take in,
Makes muckle siller—O horrid din.
Whores and thieves, and jolly beggars,
Packmen and tinkers around him stagger
And gi'es him siller each day to plank,
I daresay in the devil's bank.
He has beds from twopence to a shilling,
It was a curious plan made by a villain ;
To get his living frae poor folk,
The shaver thinks he is nae joke.
He had a wife, a regular randy,
Who did like whisky, rum and brandy ;
.  She cut her stick wi' a thimbleman,
For sake of drink it was her plan.
There is many a one comes to his house,
Wha thinks they are o' muckle use,
That's perfect blackguards like himsel',
And on the very road to hell.
This while he has been very thrang,
And made a purse baith braid and lang;
He has bought a house in the West Port,
Where Burk and Hare used to resort.
Good people, keep frae yon rough den,
In case that you be taken in.
The owner of it has been a foe
To many decent man, you know,
He was confederate to Burk and Hare,
His countrymen he loved dear;
Burk's death gave him muckle grief,
Since that he has scarcely got relief.
His laird he is a drunken chieftain,
Wi drink be is very often  ristin';
The tenant gi'es him oft a glass
Of whisky o' the very best.
There was a man they say was killed,
With pish and liquor so distilled ;
But now since syne its turned out
That cork-leg done the deed's, nae doubt.
It was proved just immediately after,
Which to many was great laughter,
To think a cripple soul would do it,
Perhaps he surely yet may rue it.
He wears a white hat on his  head,
He does not set it weel Indeed ;
A dandy coat o' bottle green.
Upon the blade is often seen.
My friends be erer on your guard,
O' yon hangman looking  soul mislear'd,
In case ye wander there at night,
And never see the morning light.

Edinburgh :-Printed for W. R.—.