Trials & Sentences.

Glasgow, April 23d, 1823.—This afternoon, the Circuit Court of Justiciary was
opened here by the Right Hon. the Lords Gillies and Succoth. After an impressive
prayer from the Rev. Dr. Gibb, the Court adjourned till next morning.

Thursday, April 24th.—The Court met this morning at 11 o'clock, and proceeded
to the trial of Alexander M'Dermid and William Murray, charged with having on the
night of the 7th February last, broke a change-house in Trongate, and stolen a silver 
watch, a silver mounted snuff-box, and a quantity of whisky. They both pled Guilty.
and after a suitable admonition from Lord Gillies were sentenced to be transported for
14 years.

Catherine Harkness alias Greenshields, charged with stealing a quantity of wearing
apparel and a gold ring on the 30th Sept. last, from a house in Clyde Street, Ander-
ston, and being habit and repute a thief; she plouded Guilty to the first charge, the
public prosecutor having departed from the second ; sentence, Bridewell for 8 years,

Mathew Turhbull, accused of breaking the shop of John Lethem, Laurieston, and
stealing a pocket-book with £60, pled Guilty. Sentence ; transportation for life.

Peter Connacher, accused of slabbing Willing Rae, was found Guilty, and was sen-
tenced to 12 months' imprisonment in Bridewell.

James Wilson and John Gilchrist accused of breaking the shop of Duncan M'Arthur,
[  ] Street Glasgow, 11th March last, and stealing a variety of articles ; Gilchrist was
dismissed from the bar ; Wilson was found Guilty, and after a suitable admonition
to improve the time allotted him here, was sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on.
the 4th day of June next.                                              

Thomas and Mathew Grass and John Buchanan, for perjury, were outlawed.

John M'Kenna, for uttering four forged guinea notes, pled Guilty, and was sen-
tenced to 14 years' transportation.

George Campbell, accused of murder, was recommitted on a new warrant.

John Thomson, theft, pleaded Guilty.    Sentence; 7 years' transportation.

James Clark and Robert Scott, for separate therts; both outlawed.

Ann M'Kechnie and John M'Donald, theft; diet deserted.

Robert M'Neill for theft;  libel Not Proven, and he was dismissed from the bar.

Wm. Murray or Morrow, Daniel Hunter or Reid, and William Beveridge, for theft 
they were found Guilty; Murray to be transported for life, and the other two 7 years.

Thomas M'Millan, for culpable homicide, was dismissed from the bar.
April 25th.—Arclid. Fyfe and William Rentoul, for debauching young girls ; Fyfe
was outlawed, and Rentoul was committed on a new warrant.

William M'Gowan, for lifting a dead body; this case goes to Edinburgh.

Alexander M'Kay, for robbery, pled Guilty. Sentence ;  to be transported for life.

John M'Donald, accused of breaking into a jeweller's shop in Candleriggs, Glasgow,
and stealing a variety of articles, was found Guilty, and after a suitable admonition,
was sentenced to be Executed on the 4th June next.

Wm. Ure, Neil M'Cann, and James Muir, theft; Ure pled Guilty, and was sen-
tentenced to 12 months' imprisonment; the other two committed on a new warrant.

Wm. and John Clark, assaulting and mobbing ; John was outlawed, and the other
to be impisoned 6 months.

Wm. Carvel, theft, was found Guilty.   Sentenced to 7 years' transportation.

James Alexander, for assaulting a woman.    This case goes to Edinburgh.

Hugh Gallaghan, for theft in Greenock.  Diet deserted.

Adam Wallace for assault in Neilston.   Sentence. 12 months in Paisley jall.
John Sinclair and Hugh M'Dougal, for theft in Paisley.  Diet deserted.

Saturday, April 25th.—John and James Munningall for deforcing revenue officers.
The former was outlawed, and the latter dismissed from the bar.
Matw. Grass, for perjury, outlawed, appeared this day, and is under a new warrant.

Alex. Foster, Wr. Grey and Wm. M'Allister for robbery in Greenock ; dismissed.

Robert Campbell and John Brown, charged with breaking a warchouse in Stirling
Street, and stealing a variety of articles; libel not proven and they were dismissed.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.