A full and particular Account of a most lamentable Dispute, that took place between
Margaret Thomson and John Con, a Coal-driver, at Elderslie, near Paisley,
during which he stabbed the unfortunate Woman, who was pregnant, with a
Poker, of which wound she died, and he is now a Prisoner in Paisley Jail.

WE hear from Eldersllie, near Paisley,
that a very melancholy event hap-
pened there, on Thursday the 2d of Oc-
tober, in consequence  of a foolish dis-

pute.

                                     

It is truly lamentable to observe the
many fatal accidents that daily occur in
different places, and which often arise
from circumstances of the most frivolous
nature.         

Nothing can be more absurd than the
odious and opprobious language so fre-
quently made use of by one person to an-
other, while in the act of scolding, with
no other view than to effect that, which
every person of a Christian disposition,
ought to avoid as much as possible; for
what end can it serve, or what pleasure
can it afford to any person of a rational
way of thinking to see his fellow-creature,
as it were, deprived of reason? But it is
no less lamentable than true, that many
take a milicious pleasure to accomplish
this despicable purpose.

Every person has his peculiar temper;
some are naturally mild, but many too
easily irritated, and those, of all men,
ought carefully to avoid entering into
controversies, as often, alas! too often, by
one sudden gust of passion, they commit
an error, that stigmatizes their name for
ever.

It appears from our information, that
Margaret Thomson, and the wife of John
Con, happened to meet at a blacksmith's
shop in Elderslie, a little village between
Paisley and the Bridge of Johnston, and
began to abuse one another most vehe-
mently, to the no small entertainment of
a number of idle spectators whom the
noise of their tongues had collected to-
gether.                                                      

At length from words they proceeded to
blows, and serious skuffle ensued. John
Con, (commonly known by then name of
Coal Jack) a fellow who drives coals be
twixt Quarrelton and Paisley, coming past
at the time, and seeing his wife struggling
with Margaret Thomson, without making
any enquiry about the matter, he ran into
the shop, and furiously seized a poker, or
iron rod, which the smith was using about
the fire, and which is said to have been
nearly red hot, and made a violent thrust
at the poor woman.

The poker, or iron rod, entered Mar-
garet Thomson's left side, and gave her a
mortal wound, of which she languished till
next day, and expired in the greatest a-
gony.                                                          

It is said the wound was of so desperate
a nature that the unfortunate woman's
entrails could be plainly seen.

                                      

To add to the melancholy catastrophe;
the poor woman was pretty far advanced
in her pregnancy, and the same wound
that deprived her of existence also proved
fatal to the babe she carried.           

Con was immediately secured, and sent
to Paisley, and safely lodged in the jail of
that town.                               

We did not hear whether any animosity
subsisted between the parties previous to
this unlucky meeting ; but, report says,
the last fatal quarrel originated from a
misunderstanding which happened some
time ago.

We sincerely hope this melancholy af-
fair will be a warning to every person of a
turbulent temper.                 



Printed by Thomas Duncan, third close above St.
Andrew's Street, Saltmarket, Glasgow--of whom
may be had, price Six-pence, a concise History of

the late R E BE lL I O N  in  Ireland.

