An  Account of the Trial and Sentences
of Thomas Hay. for stabbing Wil-
liam. Moffat, in Leith, on the 18th
of July last, and before his sentence
is carried into execution he is to be
lashed through the town of Leith on
Wednesday 18th February 1824.

A case came on for trial yesterday, (2d February 1824,) unpara-
lleled by the recent atrocity in Hertfordshire, and can only be
compared to some of the crimes which the busy tongue of rum-
our had alleged against Thurtell and his gang. In the present
instance the accused, Thomas Hay, resided in a solitary manner
in a house in King street, Leith, no living creature cohabited
with him. Having fitted up his inner room as a human slaugh
ter-house, he set out one morning in July last in quest of his in-
tended victim, whom he deeoyed to the place of sacrifice, and a-
gainst whom he aimed the murderous blow,—but happily failed
in the accomplishment of his diabolical purpose.

The indictment having been read, the panel pleaded, " I am
not guilty my Lord, but Mr Wilson is gnilty of rousing me out
of my bed this morning, and bringing me here without my break
fast, a state, I presume, which no  one present is in besidee myself."

Mr William Moffat, wright in Leith, said that on the 18th of
July last, he waas walking, and met the prisoner about 8 in the
morning, who asked him to go along with him to see some re-
pairs he had to make, and requested him to send away  two dogs
that followed the witness,  as the pannel had a cat and kittens in
the house, when they got in the house the pannel locked and
bolted the door prisoner pressed him to go into another room
from the one they first eatered, witness did so, and observed to
the pannel that his was-cloth on the floor was not properly laid
down, for the red side was uppermost, and the ends lying against
the the chairs and bed instead of being laid below them.  The
pannel invited witness to take a glass of spirits, he then said that
he had bought some property in Edinburgh, and, wished witness
to put up some partitions, and wished him to go and settle with
the person he bought the property from, as his leg was so sore
he could not go himself, and asked witness to make out a receipt
for what money he would entrust him with, which was £220,
and shewed him 12 £20 pound  notes. The pannel gave him a
letter to read, while doing so he lift up his eyes and saw the
panuel unfolding something, which he thought at the time was
the money, but shortly after witness was surprised to hear a
strong suction of breath very near him, after seeing the prisoner
at a distance from him, he locked up and saw prisoner standing
over him and making a thrust with a knife, which in attempting
to ward off the blow he received in his arm, witness, wrestled
with him, and threw him against the bed, and held him on the
floor, and succeeded in taking the knife from him, but got the
leader of one of the fingers of the right hand, and the leaders of
all the fingers of the left hand cut. He then opened the door
and called for assistance, prisoner was not intoxicated at the
time. Had never quairelled with the prisoner, nor had any
words with the prisoner before he stabbed him.

The panel's declaration was read. Among other things it
stated that Mr Moftat made up to the prisoner in Giles street, on
the morning in question, and accompanied him to his house;
that the wound was occasioned by his foot tripping while he had
the knife in his hand cutting bread and cheese with it, that in
falling he upset the table and cut Mr Moffat's arm. He (declar-
ant) was unable to say where he purchased the knife, which ap-
peared new and never to have been used for any other purpose.
He was unable to account for many other circumstances, and re-
fused to answer several pertinent questions.

After observations at considerable length from the public
prosecutorl in which he shewed the enormity of the crime of
which the pannel is guilty, and which was powerfully answered
by the pannel's agent, the jury deliberated for a short time, and
returned a verdict of guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk previous to pronomncing sentence,
dwelt greatly on the heinous nature of the crime of which the
pannel is found guilty, and remarked, that had his case been in
England, the last sentence of the law would have been awarded
against him, his Lordship then delivered the sentence of the
law, viz. that he will be transported beyond seas for the period
of fourteen years ; and previous to which, to be publicity whipt
through the streets of Leith, on Wednesday the 18th February
1824     