Trial &  Sentence.

Account of  the Trial and sentence of WILLIAM DIVAN,
before the High Court of Justiciary at Edinburgh, on
Monday the 14 th day of  June, 1824, accused of murdering
his own Wife in the Gorbals of Glasgow, on the 6th of
April last, by cutting her throat with a Razor, in which
state she was found an entering the house; also an account
 of the sentence of Samuel  M'Menemy, who was found guilty
falsehood, fraud and wilful imposition at the last Circuit
Court of Justiciary here.

EDINBURGH, June 14th, 1824.

This day, came on the trial of William Divan,  accused of the barbarous murder
of his own wife by cutting her throat in his own house,  in Paisley Loan, Gorbals,
on the 6th day of April, 1824.  The woman's throat was cut, and the blood was
running through the house. She was discovered by two of her own children on
their coming home to dinner. The Police examined the house, and found nothing
missing, so that plunder was not the object; they found a bloody shift, and the
razor with which the horrid deed had been perpetrated,  which belonged to one of
his neighbours, from whom ne borrowed it,  in order, as he said, to shave himself
With.

After the Jury had been sworn in, the pannel being asked whether he was Guilty
or Not Guilty, the prisoner pled Not Guilty, and the trial proceeded when after
the examination of a number of witnesses, the Jury were ably addressed by the
Crown Counsel, and afterwards by the Counsel for the prisoner. The Lord Justice
Clerk then summed up the evidence in a clear and distinct manner, when the jury
were enclosed, and ordered to return their verdict, whieh they accordingly did,
finding the prisoner Guilty, and sentenced him to be Executed at Glasgow on wed-
nesday the 21st day of July next, and his body to be given for dissection;  before
passing sentence, assured him that his days were numbered; he had cruelly bereft
his wire of life, whom he ought to have protected and cherished ; you stand this
day at the bar another awful example that " murder will not hide."—I beseech
you to humble yourself before God whose laws you have so grievously offended—
mercy you had none, and none you can expect on earth, but may God have mercy
upon your immortal soul.                                                                       

The deceased is said to have been a quite inoffensive woman, Vary industrious,
and did every thing in her power to gain an honest subsistence for her family,
but did not live in such comfortable circumstances as might have been expected,
owing to her striving to gather as much as she could for family necessaries, and he,
On the contrary, endeavouring to get possession of her earnings, for the purpose of
enabling him to join in company with his acquaintance ,which was the cause of all
the quarrels in trie family.

Samuel M'Menemy, who was found Guilty at the last Circuit Court in Glasgow,
of falsehood, fraud, cozenage, and wilful imposition, and who was bent to Edin-
burgh to receive sentence, was brought up on Monday the 7th of June last and
was sentenced to 12  months' imprisonment in Glasgow Bridewell, and to be kept
at hard labour; he received a suitable admonition with regard to his future con-
duct in society,  and it was hoped he would make ample atonement for his past
offences, by his good  conduct in time to come.       

                                                                                   

                                                                               W. Carse,  Printer, Glasgow.   