Letter from Kirkaldy.
DREADFUL
ACCIDENT
At Kirkaldy


By a Gallery in the Church falling down,
during the time the Rev, Dr Irving was
preaching to a crowed Audience where-
by a great number was killed and
wounded.

News of a most disagreeable nature  have reached
us from Kirkaldy this morning, and the following
letter was handed to us just now, by a respectable
Gentleman, who had received it from a friend by the
Steam Boat, upon making enquiry, we find that  some  
accident has actually  taken place last  night in that
quarter, and we give it publicity, hoping as the writer
says, that it is greatly exaggerated.

Kirkaldy; Monday Morning, June 16th 1828.
Sir-I embrace the opportunity of sending you   by
the first boat   this morning,   some   accounts   of  the
dreadful accident which happened last night, an  acci-
dent, which for its fatal and calamatious consequences,
is unparalleled  in the history of Kirkaldy.    It was in-
timated, latter end of last week, that the Rev. Mr
Erving was to preach in our church on Sunday evening,
which  intimation soon gained circulation   for   miles
round  Kirkaldy, and during Sunday   afternoon,   the
people  were seen  pouring  into   the  town  from   all
quarters.

Long before the stated hour, the Church  was filled
to excess, and hundreds could not gain admittance.
The service commenced, and nothing in the least in-
dicated or forwarned the awful catastrophe that fol-
lowed.   During the service however owing  to the
crowded state of the Gallery, a kind of continual mov-
ing was going on, such as some of those that were sit-
ting, rising up to accommodate those that had stood  
some length of time.   When service was near conclud-
ed, a sort of crackling noise was heard, which alarm-
ed the people, and  caused  a general  movement, and
awful to relate, at this moment of confusion, part of
the Gallery gave way, and fell with  a  crash   on  the
    devoted victims below.    A scene past describing now
took place, a general rush was made towards the doors
and many were hurt by being trampled on and press-
ed.    As soon as the accident was made known to  the
proper authorities, they rendered the greatest assist-
ance, those that were hurt were carefully lodged in
the  neighbouring  houses,   where  medical  assistance
was promptly got.

I have not been able to ascertain the exact  number
of those that ware hurt, as the town is still in  a state
of confusion, but report  says that there are   thirty
killed, besides many that is dangerously hurt; but I
hope   this   account is greatly exaggerated.    I  was
among the fortunate number that did not gain admit-
tance.    During the course of this day I will get every
information, and let you know.    I send this early in-
telligence to give you the satisfaction that there was
none  of our family there.

I am &c.