The--------'s DREAM;

OR

The Devil opposing the Resurrection Men.

I

AT rest on a sofa the----------was laid,

Not asleep------yet a drowziness over him hung ;

Some say that he thought on his bills yet unpaid,
But the notion at this time was certainly wrong.

II

Alas the poor-------------- was humbled, and sore

At the storm he had rais'd for the sake of the dead,
And he vow'd to himself,   should he 'scape this once

more
With foreign concerns ne'er to trouble his head.

III

He thought, and he thought, but he labor'd in vain,
For a plan to relieve him from such a commotion:
Could he find but a box to imprison his pain,

He'd sink it ten thousand feet deep in the ocean.

IV
With such deep conceptions, no wonder his mind

Grew jaded and weary—he soon ceased to weep ;
And in spite of his trouble, the rain, and the wind,
His head gave a nod, and he fell—fast asleep.

V

But woe for the---------------- the slumber  that seiz'd

him,

Brought terrors unknown to his sensitive breast;
Dissection had sicken'd, and pamphlets amaz'd him,

Now,------something he knew not,   his bosom op-

press'd.

VI
Anon, (so he thought) the wind fearfully blew,

And whistled, and roar,d with a deep hollow sound.
And dark, and more dark, the thick atmosphere grew.
And the light'ning flash'd luridly over the ground.

VII

All at once— in an instant, the tempest was o'er,

No flash dim'd the eye with its red sudden glare;
But the palpable, terrible darkness was more

And a silence like death was around in the air.

VIII
The heart of the Caitif now panted with fear ;

A deadly chill ran o'er his shuddering frame,
He felt that some Being unearthly was near,     [came.

But he saw not,   nor knew, from which quarter  it,

IX

At last a most horrid sensation he found,

Like the plague coming near in a bodily form,
Then a hand grasp'd his own, whilst a harsh hollow

sound,
Thus broke on his ear—" thou friend of the worm*."

X
" Know, the Devil am I, and not to alarm ye,

" I came in a sort of invisible dress :
" Ne'er tremble nor start man, be sure I'll not harm ye,
" True brothers are we in all weal or distress.

XI
" I came just to tell ye, the doctors are writing,

" And thinking to ruin both us and our cause;
" And faith man there's some, pretty good at inditing,
" Yet burn 'em, I'll conquer or forfeit my claws.
XII

" Our sister in league, Miss -----shall lie for us

" She's staunch to her trust, with her you may flout

'em,
" Good brother adieu, you can but dye for us,

" But the Deil and  Miss------ and the —— ——

must rout 'em."

* See the Humble Petition of the Worms, &c.