FATAL DUEL

EARL   OF    EGLINGTON   SHOT

Just Published, an Account of that Melancholy and
Fatal DUEL, that took place between the Right Hon
ourable the Earl of Eglinton and Captain Gorbon, con-
cerning a Lady of high respectibility, when dreadful
to relate his Lordship was shot through the heart.



FATAL DUEL- It is deeply to be regreted that in this
cevilized country-in this enlightened age-and amongst
the higher classes of society, that this MURDLRING and
blood thirsty   propensity   prevails '  and we  may   with
justice remark,  that  except  in very  few  instances,  with  impunity.
The surviving party either  evades the scrutiny  of the law, by taking
refuge  in some forign country ;  or the law, even when the  parties
surrender themselves,  is so lenient,  that no  salutary effect is exper-
ienced.    The report  of the case, which it is our panful duty to lay
before the public,  is   announced   in the   Greenock  Intelligenc r of
Saturday, which   briefly states that   the   Right Honourable the Earl
of Eglinton was shot in a duel, by Captain Gardon. It  is surmised
but we  cannnot gledge   on what degree of authencity it is founded,
that a lady was the cause of  the dreadful catastrophe.

LIBEL FOR SEDITION- On Thursday last Colonel
Fairman sppeared before the Justices, and made affidavit
to the following effect-Declares that he never did
directly or indirectly, tell or inform Mr Haywood, that
pe, Colonel Fairman, had been desired, directed or de-
puted by Lord George Kenyon, to sound the Brethern
of the Orange Lidge at Brandly, show they felt despos-
ed in the event of King William the IV being deposed,
which was not improbable, on account of his sanction-
ing the reform Government, and if so, it would then be
the duty of every Orangeman to support the Duke of
Cumberland, who would then, in all probability, be called
to the Throne of Great Britain.

The following extract of letter from the defender to
Lord Kenyon was read in Court.- I believe I mention-
ed that I had consulted Lord Wynford on the propriety
of continuing to introduce the Duke's name in the
prominent shape I had done, and of the policy of which
he appeared to agree. There is one strong point which
induces me to cherish a hope that I have worked a
change in the sentiments of the preas, that is, it has not
attacked me, nor attended to gainsay my comments in
refutation of the calumanies so lavishly put forth against
our illustrious Grand Mrster. If he would but make
a tour in these parts for which I have paved the way
he would be idolized.            

The Lord Chief Justice having addressed the Jury,
who returned a verict against Captain Fairman. and at
the same time Lord Kenyon filed an affidavit

ALENDER DUNBAR, PRINTER, EDINBURG