Horrid Murder!

A full, true and particular Account of that most
Atrocious and Horrid Murder, committed on
the body of a respectable old gentleman of the
name of Millie, in the neighbourhood of Cupar,
in Fife; together with the apprehension of his
man-servant, named Henderson, on suspicion of
having perpetrated this barbarous deed, and who
is now lodged in Cupar Jail.

(From the Edinburgh Observer.)

A  MURDER of a very horrid and atrocious
description has just been discovered in the
neighbourhood of Cupar, in Fife.    About ten or
twelve   days   ago   a   respectable  old  gentleman,
named Millie, who resided there, in a house sur-
rounded  by a garden and park, disappeared  in a
somewhat   mysterious   manner;    and   suspicion
having been excited that he was murdered, search
was made in his grounds, when his body, muti-
lated by a hammer, or some such instrument, was
found buried in his garden.    A man, who acted,
as we have heard, as his servant, and whose name
is Henderson, has been appreheaded on suspicion
of having perpetrated this horrible crime, and is
now in Cupar Jail.    To these facts we are enabled
to add the following particulars :....On  Tuesday
last, (the 20th July instant,) a most respectable in-
dividual in this city (Edinburgh) received a parcel,
addressed to his  care, directed for the murdered
man, of whom he had no knowledge whatever.
This parcel the sheriff-officers subsequently traced
to the coach-office, and from thence to the place
where it had been delivered, when it was instantly
handed over to them in the same state that it had
been received; and yesterday (Monday, July 26,)
the clerks at the coach-office, and the gentleman
alluded to, were examined here by the authorities.
The parcel, we understand, contained charters and
other documents relative to the murdered man's
property, and is supposed to have been dispatched
by his murderer from Cupar a day or two subse-
quent to his disappearance—probably with   the
view of misleading enquirers.

Second Edition, Observer Office, 4  o'clock P.M.

Mr Millie was what was called a damask customer weaver~ that
is, a weaver who weaves for families~at Whin Park, near Monimail,
six miles from Cupar.    He usually employed one or two journey-
men, who boarded in the house.    He had been missing for about a
month, and his absence was accounted for by Henderson, the man
who is charged with the murder, and who resided in the house as a
journeyman, on the ground that he had gone to Edinburgh to su-
perintend a law process against Lord Leven.    The deceased being
rather an eccentric character, and disposed to be litigious, this story
was credited for some time~and the more readily because Hender-
son still  continued  to reside in the house.    It being known, how-
ever, that Henderson was previously short of cash, the circumstance
of his appearing much better  supplied than formerly, began to ex-
cite notice.    An inquiry was  consequently instituted, and  on  Sa-
turday the body of Millie was found buried in his own garden.    On
that day Henderson told a neighbour that Millie had returned home,
but had  been   obliged  to go  to   Cupar,  from  whence  he would
be back in the evening.     An hour or two after Henderson dissa-
peared, and search commenced.    On entering the house indications
were visible of an attempt to dig into the floor, which was of clay,
but the house being founded on a rock, the earth had been  opened
only to the depth of a foot, when the digger encountered  that in-
surmouutable   obstruction.     The  search  being  transferred to the
garden, the body  was  discovered as  already  stated,—ouried in a
foot-path leading to a well.    The path was so beaten that,  but for
an accidental circumstance,  the  discovery  would  probably  never
have been made.    Information having been given to the  Sheriff-
Substitute, he instantly repaired to the scene of crime, and  institut-
ed an investigation, which    led to the pursuit of Henderson,  who
was apprehended at Dunfermline,  on  Sunday morning—of which
town he is a native.    He denies all knowledge of the murder,

Printed for Felix O'Neill.

