WONDERFUL

Account of a Woman who was buried alive, and who broke open the coffin while they were laying her in the grave, which so frightened the company that they fled in every direction; – also, a copy of the interesting Dream which she had in that state.

Chelmsford, Oct 4th 1821.

I arrived last evening about five o'clock, in this town, and strolling round the church-yard, I was attracted within the walls of the church by the appearance of a corpse, followed by an immense number of mourners of both sexes, who were paying their last respect to a deceased friend. While the funeral service was reading over the body, a noise was heard to proceed from the coffin, which for a moment arrested the clergyman and his auditors; but as the noise appeared to cease, the service was concluded, each individual being persuaded it must have proceeded from quite a different source than the coffin. Just, however, as the coffin was being led down into the tomb, the same sound as before issued from it, accompanied with a noise similar to the whelping of a puppy, when, in an instant, the enclosed person, by a sudden and violent effort, thrust off the lid of the coffin, with her arms hanging on each side, with eyes wide open and rolling in their sockets; at the frightened multitude assembled round, who fled in every direction, and could hardly be persuaded to return and relieve her from her cold and gloomy apartment. They, however, resumed their fortitude, and returned and helped her out of the grave. – When brought above ground, she appeared more frightened than hurt, and was borne back to her habitation on the very same bier which supported her to the ground. – I understand, from the surgeon who attended her, and whom I have seen this morning, that she has had a very good night, and is likely finally to recover. – She is a widow, and had she "slumbered in the arms of Death", would have left 10 children wholly unprovided for. – British Traveller.

The account she gives of her situation is one, which no person but one who has been in the same situation can have any idea of. – She had been complaining of a pain in her head a few days before she took to bed, and after being there a few hours, she fell into a swoon , and had several strange dreams of glimmerings of future days, the most remarkable of which was, that she had entered a large Hall, lighted with Gothic lamps, with a large table in the centre, at which sat a number of Kings, Queens, Dukes, Marquises and Lords, with a vast concourse of ladies of distinction, who vied with each other who should accommodate her best. – In the midst of this high assemblage, stood a lady of exquisite beauty, and who seemed to command the attention of the assembly nobility, and who addressed them thus: – I was a wondered upon earth, and travelled from city to city, with few friends to smooth the rugged path of life, which I found strewed all over with thorns and briers, and having nothing to endear me in my wearisome days and restless nights, I repaired to this Gothic Hall where I now find so many Nobles assembled. – But, be hush'd thou monitor of former days, and forget all those troubles and trials which have so often changed by countenance and caused tears of grief to flow. – I now am happy, and your enjoyments and mine will be paramount to all our former trials. – This concluded her speech, and in an instant all was dark as midnight. She now awake, and found herself in a situation which she could not describe, till she again saw the light of heaven, and found herself laid in the grave. The people who attended her, from her want of food, and seeing no motion in her body, considered her dead, and had her conveyed to the dust, where the above wonderful change took place.

W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.