COPY OF A CURIOUS

Love Letter,   



From a young Gentleman in  this  neighbour-     
hood,  which   was  found   near  this  place, this     
morning, addressed to Miss N. S—, a young lady
belonging to this town, which will prove very
interesting to the public in general.                         

Directions for Reading it.                                   

Hast thou no pity on my woes ?              	So read straightforward and be curst.
Dos  thou at me turn  up thy nose?         	But if thy heart to me incline,                           
I'll make my declaration first,              		Oh! jump o'er every fine.                                  

MADAM,—The great affection I have hitherto expressed for you
is  false,   and   I  now  feel  that  my indifference  towards you
increases  every  day,   and the  more I see of you,   the more       
you appear ridiculous in  my eyes, and an object of  contempt.       
I feel inclined, and in all respects disposed and determined  to       
hate   you.       Believe   me,   I never in the least   intended to       
offer you  my   hand.        Our conversation has,   I assure  you,       
left a tedious and wretched insipidity, which by no meas has       
possessed me with the, most exalted opinion of your  character ;       
your inconstant  temoer   would   always   make   me  miserable ;       
and if ever we are untited, I should experience  nothing but       
the fearful hatred of my parents, added to the everlasting dis.-       
pleasure in living  with you.      I have indeed a faithful heart       
to bestow ; but, however, I do not wish you to imagine that it is
at your service, for it is impossible I could give it to one more
inconstant and capricious than   yourself, and one who is less       
capable to do honour to ray choice and to my family.                       

Yes, Madam,  I beg and desire you  will be persuaded that       
I think sincerely, and  you   will do me  the greatest   pleasure       
to avoid me.     I shall readily excuse your taking the trouble       
to return an answer to this:   for  your letters are always full of      
nonsense and impertinence, and have not the least shadow of       
wit   or   good   sense.        Adieu,  and believe truly, that I am       
so averse to you, that it is impossible 1 should ever be,                    
Madam, your affectionate lover, J. C——e.           