A WEUL    AND    ALARMING    ALLEGED     
MURDER,  IN NORTH BRIDGE STREET, 

EDINBURGH.

Just Published, an Account of that horrible and
cruel Murder, alleged to have been committed on the
person of Mr Thomas  Turner, late Landlord of the
Ches'shire Tavern. North Bridge, Edinburgh; with
the apprehension of Margaret Patrick or Turner, his
wife, and Mr William Dodds, High Street, who are
implicated in this tragical affair.

A case of such an attrocious nature, as the one which
we are about to record, requires to be treated with the
greatest circumspection,  more especially as   the parties
implicated have not,  as yet,   undergone a thorough in-
vestigation.     The following, however, are the outlines
of the catastrophe. - On Saturday last, Mr Turner   was
in his wonted health   and spirits,  and while in   his own
house was so assaulted that on Tuesday night, he breath-
ed his last,     Many   surmises are   afloat regarding  this
fatal affair,  but   certain it is, on   Mr Turner's demise,
his body was found to bear marks of extreem violence,
and after a surgical examination, and judicial investiga-
tion, which being reported to the  Public  Authorities,
grounded a cause against Mr Dods, and Mrs  Turner. 
The deceased and his   wife   (who was formerly  his   bar
maid) lived  on very  disagreeable terms, and were more
than once before the bar of the Police Court on charges
of assault,     Mr Turner was twice married and   has  left
two children by the prisoner.    His body   is  still lying
in the tavern,   which will propably  not   be intired until
a   further  consultation   takes place among   the medical
gentlemen   appointed to inspect   it.
Edinburgh, 20th March,   1834.

The deceased Roger Haldon, a labourer, residing in a small cottage
near Blackburn.   was poisoned by his wife, under the following cir-
cuamstnces - The parties lived   upon the  most unfriendly terms, in
consequence of a jealousy on  the part of the deceased, who was about
45  years of age, his wife, aged 29, was connected with another
man,  Inconsequence of these disagreements she formed  the diaboli-
cal scheme of  boisoning   him.     With   this view she preyailed on a
neighbouring shopkeeper   to bring   her half a pound  of arsenic from
Blackburn, for   the  purpose, as  she alleged , of  destroying fleas. The
husband being in the habit, on his  return from work in the even-
ing of drinking a little tea or coffee from the teapot, she placed the
arsenic in this vessel among   the coffee.      It stood   two nights with -
out tasting it;   but on the evening in  qnestion, he being rather dry,
and seeing the teapot upon  the   table,   he asked her  if   she had any
thing for to drink? She  replied,     "Eigh,   there's  the pot; on
which he took it up, and drank heartily of its contents, Immedi-
ately after wards  he went ont , with the intention of going to the house
of a relation, but before  he arrived  he dropped down, and shortly
after expired. The wife being taken ,into custody, confessed   her
guilt, but added, with apparent confidence of safety, 'But  mind. 
thought  I  put the stuft ioto the pot I did  not give it  to him.--he
took it himself '.                     Examiner.
Forbes, Printer, Edinburgh.