    DREADFUL

    SHIPWRECK                       
            
     OF A LONDON

               SMACK

Full, True, and Particular Account of the melan-
choly Shipwreck of the   London  Smack   Czar,
near North Berwick, on Friday night last, when
the Master, five of the crew,   and thirteen Pass-
engers were drowned.    

  (From the Edinburgh Courant)

On Friday afternoon, between five and six
o'clock, in a very heavy gale of easterly wind, ac-
companied with snow, the smack Czar, of Leith,
George Smith, master, on her voyage from London
 ran on shore near North Berwi k, opposite to the
property of George Sligo, Esq. of Seacliff. Imme-
diately on receiving information, Mr Sligo collect-
ed his farm servants, and repaired to the spot ; but
from the darkness of the night, and the fury of the
storm, it was impossible for them to render the
least assistance, although the cries of those on board
could at times be heard.

When the tide had partly receded, nine of the
crew were saved, and taken to the house of Mr
Weir of Scoughall farm ; but the rest of the crew,
 five in number, including the master, were unfor-
tunately lost. The greatest exertions were made
by Mr Sligo and Mr Weir of Scoughall farm, who
also treated the passengers  with the greatest  kind-
ness and attention. Mr Crichton, one of the ma-
nagers of the Shipping Company to which the Czar
belongs, set off from Leith for North Berwick im-
mediately on the above melancholy intelligence be-
ing received, to do every thing in his power for the
interest of all concerned. The only names or pas-
sengers transmitted in the vessel's manifest from
London are, Mr and Mrs Scott, Miss Graham, and
Mr Mayell.

On Wednesday moring, a coal-hewer belong-
ing to Mellerston was found dead among the snow.
He was on his way to his work, but it appears
that he had lost his way, and  fell down amongst
the snow, and expired.

FIFE.

The accounts from the West of Fife are of the
most alarming and painful description. Near
Glenfarg, it is said, no less than Eleven Persons
have perished in the Snow.

AWFUL SHIPWRECK, AT LEITH.

We are sorry to say that a most melancholy
shipwreck has just taken place at Leith. A vessel
struck on the Black Rocks, when, awful to relate,
all on board perished. About forty vessels have
taken shelter from the storm behind Inchkeith.

John Campell, Printer, Edinburgh.