Respite for a Month.

Copy Letter, relative to the Case of these three unfor-
tunate young Boys, CHARLES McLAREN, THOMAS
GRIERSON, and JAMES McEWEN, who were lately Sen-
tenced to be Executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes-
day the 12th February, 1823, for Housebreaking
and Theft ; but who have been Respited for one
	Month longer. 

THE following very sensible and considerate Letter, relative to
     the case of these unhappy young  boys, lately condemned to
be executed in  this City, for Housebreaking and Theft, is copied
from the Edinburgh Weekly Journal  of Wednesday the  22d of
January last ; and, we certainly concur in opinion with the writer,
 "in viewing the  probable execution of this sentence with feelings
of deep regret, and of considering  the punishment of these boys
as arising in a great measure, if not wholly, from  the untoward
circumstances in which it has been their unhappy lot to be placed ;"
yet, the crimes for which they were convicted has  become of late
so very prevalent in  this place, and almost all, too, perpetrated by
youths    of   about   their age that an example, perhaps, has
become absolutely necessary.    We learn, however, that the Carlisle
Mail, which arrived in Edinburgh about mid-day  on  Monday the
10 th instant, brought a Respite to these unfortunate youths for one
month longer.

To the Editor of the Edinburgh Weekly Journal.

Sir....I observe from the newspapers, that a few days ago. several
boys, from thirteen to seventeen years of age, have been condemn-
ed to death in this city, for the crime of housebreaking and theft
and that in passing  sentence, the presiding Judge intimated to
two of them, that they were to expect no alleviation of the sentence.
Indeed, from the  crime having become very prevalent in this part
of the country, and from the circumstance of the public prosecu-
tor's having declined  to restrict the  libel to  an arbitrary punish-
ment, it is generally believed that it is intended to carry the dread-
ful sentence into execution,

I am far from being singular in viewing the probable execution
of this sentence  with feelings of deep regret,  and of considering
the punishment of these unhappy boys  as arising in a great mea-
sure, if not wholly, from the untoward circumstances in which it
has been their unhappy lot to be placed. Need I recapitulate the
history of such beings ? Born probably of vicious and depraved
parents, neglected in their education, placed among the most
worthless as companions, encouraged to pilfer by cunning and
unprincipled resetters, and not arrived at the period of life, when
the reasoning powers can enable them to counteract the errors of
their education,... they are brought to the gallows as mere victims
of misfortune, whose sate, can excite only pity and commisseration.
Is it therefore just, or consistent with the rules of enlightened
jurisprudence, to inflict upon such young and misguided creatures,
that punishment which is the doom of the murderer and assassin?
Severe as our laws have often been held in punishing with death
crimes short of murder, they contract a feature of barbarity when
enforced against persons of such tender years.

  I think it  unnecessary to enlarge on this matter.    My sole mo-
tive is to draw the  public attention to the case, and  in this way
  perhaps, to induce an application to be made for a commutation
of  the sentence, before it is too late.         I am, &c.

AMICUS JUVENTUTIS.

Jan.,31, 1823.

We have heard,  with  great satisfaction, that these unfortunate
boys have behaved in the most becoming manner since their con-
demnation, and has given good grounds for believing that  they are
indeed striving for an interest in the atoning blood of a crucified
Saviour.    We sincerely pray, that they may obtain pardon for all
their manifold transgressions, that they may be supported through
life, and at death, by a firm reliance on the sufferings and merit of
the Redeemer of lost mankind, and ultimately   be  admitted  into
the kingdom of glory ; and though the best of earthly  Kings has,
very humanely, given orders for their lives to be prolonged for an-
other month in this world, we hope that they, as well as their wick-
ed companions, and others, will always remember, that they have
to render an account to the King of Kings, for their deeds and con-
duct while in this life.       Edinburgh....Printed for James McLean.