Discovery,

OF                                      

Ancient Relics.

A Full, True, and Interersting Account' of
that Remarkable and Important Discovery
made yesterday in taking down the old
houses in the Castle-hill, when there was
found a box contanig several Ancient Coins,
a Massy Gold Ring, an old fashioned Dirk.
and a Wonderful Prophecy made in the
yerar 1550, respecting great events which
are to happen this present year. 

A Report has  just reached  us of a very 
Remarkable and Interesting Discovery bar-
ing been made yesterday by the labourer.
employed in taking down an old house in
the Castle-hill', of a wooden Box containing
Several very ancient relics and a Wonderful
Propheey made in the year 1550, relative to
Strange events which are to take  place this 
present  year.

From the confused statement  so hastily 
made to us  we  have  endeavoured to collect
the following interesting particulars : —•

Our  readers are already  aware that  most.
of the tenements in tho Castle-hill are of 
very ancient  constructure, more especially 
those situated  in the closes  or alleys leading
from the main street down to the Grass
market  and  were in former  days inhabited
by the wealthy and the powerful of the -
land. Though we could mention the names
of many  of the noble occupiers  of these once
magnificent but now decidedly humble dwel-
lings,we deem it here would be superfluous.
and referring the curious to Chalmers'  Tra-
ditions, we shall at once proceed to the sub-
ject of the discovery.

As some of the workmen employed in tak-
ing down the houses  in the Castle-hill which
stand in the line of the New Improvements
were busily engaged  in loosening part of a
joint wall of mutual gable. and while one of
them was in the act of displecing a stone of
pretty large dimensions, his attention was
arrested at the sight  of a wooden box con-
cealed in a cavity beneath On examination
it was found to be made of oak, in a state of
excellent preservation, the sides were clasp-
ed with iron, and the lid carefully nailed and
sealed down. It appeared that it must have
been secreted in the wall at some period  sub-
sequent to its erection, for a piece of stone
was found neatly fitted in on the inside of
what had lately been a small chamber.

On opening the box, there was found de-
posited within several very ancient coins, a
massy gold ring, seemingly of great antiqui-
ty, a curious sort of dirk, richly Studded
with silver, and a piece of parchment tightly
rolled together, bearing the following curious
inscription, wrote in old fashioned but very
intelligible characters:—

" 1550, Januarie 12. [A Bytter Frost.]
In ye year 1881, There shalle be myghtie
trobelles. Ye countrye shalle be on ye brink-
of destroctione, but they re shalle aryse meane 
aboundinge in vertew and talente, we shalle
restor it to helthe and soundenesse, and cause
ye pepel to lyve in prosperytye. Ye power
turned agynst ye pepel shalle be yeelded to'
its ryghtful owners."

It is to be hoped that these valuable anti-
quities will be carefully preserved and sub-
mitted to the inspection of the curious.

Edinburgh, Printed for the Booksellers,.
Price One Penny.