HORRID

A Full, True. and Particular Account of that most Horrid and
Barbarous Murder, committed by JAMES FRASER, a chim-
ney-sweeper, in Blackfriars' Wynd, this day on the body of his
own Wife, by striking her on the back of the head with a leaden
bullet.

It has again become our painful duty to record another
of the shocking depravity of human nature, in the recurrence of
one of those most diabolical and attrocious crimes which have of
late years so foully stained the annals of this enlightened country.

Murder is a crime of the darkest hue, and its perpetration is
looked upon with such utter abhorrence, that'the bare mention of
its being committed upon an entire stranger or even an avowed
enemy to the murderer, causes the blood of the most callous indi-
vidual to run cold in its circulation through the human frame;
but with how much additional horror is the perpetration of this
foul crime attended when committed by a man possessed of all the
powers of reason and reflection upon the wife of his bosom, the
partner of his joys and sorrows, and whom he is bound both by the
laws of God and man to protect even unto death. Yet it is a
matter of melancholy reflection that deeds of this foul description
have of late years become of too frequent occurrence in what was
wont to be termed " moral Scotland ;"—and, not with standing of
the many awful warnings and examples which have consequently

seen exhibited by the law, we are again called upon to add another

case to the horrid catalogue.

This day, at two o'clock, a sootyman of the name of James Fra-
er, residing in Blackfriars' wynd, was taken into custody on a
charge of murder, committed on the body of his own wife.

It appears that the deceased and her husband were in the ha-
bitual custom of indulging themselves so freely in the use of ar-
dent spirits, that they frequently quarrelled themselves, and often
set the whole neighbourhood in an nproar.

The deceased was conveyed in a hand-barrow to the police-of-
fice, to await an examination by the proper authorities, and the

husband has likewise been taken into custody.

Fraser and his wife, it is understood, had had a quarrel in the
morning, and, it is believed, she received the fatal stroke behind
the ear, and possibly with a leaden bullet as used by chimney-
sweeps in their usual employment.

In the present early stage of the investigation, it would he high-
ly improper in us to indulge in a repetition of the various state-
ments we have heard connected with this horrid crime.

Such is the account of this affair which has reached us : But it
is necessary, of course, to receive them with the utmost caution,
until the production of legal evidence on the charge.

Jack at Trafalgar.—A veteran at the battle of Trafalgar, who
was actively employed at one of the guns on the quarter-deck of
the Britannia, had his leg shot off below the knee, and observed
to an officer who was ordering him to be conveyed to the cock-pft,
"That's but a shilling touch ; an inch higher and I should had my
eighteen-pence for it; alluding to the scale of pensions allowed for
wounds, which, of course, increase according to their severity.
The same hearty fellow, as they were lifting him on a brother
tar's shoulders, said to one of his friends, " Bob, take a look for
my leg, and give me the silver buckle out of my shoe: I'll do as
much for you, please God, some other time."

Black guard—(See Johnson, &c.)—a term said to be derived from
a number of dirty, tattered, and roguish boys, who attended at the
Horse-Guards, and Parade in St. James's Park, to black the boots
and shoes of the soldiers, or to do any other dirty offices. These
from their constant attendance about the ime of guard mounting,
were nick-named the Black Guards.

Sanderson, Printer, High Street.