The last Speech confession and dying words of Colonel Despard and
his assocates.           


Were brought out upon the scaffold erected on the
top of the New Gaol, Horsemonger-lane, to un-
dergo the Senteuce of  the Law.

Colonel Despard came the last upon the scaffold
He made a speech to the surrounding spectators, in
which he declared his innocence of the Crime for
which he was condemned to die His Fellow sufferers
said nothing, and all behaved with great dcorum,
and resignation to their fate.

After the Colonel had. made his speech he was
greered  by  clapping and huzzaing,  otherwise the
Populace behaved with the greatest  propriety.

Nearly about nine o'clock  the Platform dropped.
After hanging about half an hour they  were cut
down, and decaditated.     The  whole of the  awful
ceremony was concluded by a quarter past ten,
Col. Despard was  the first who was beheaded.
The Soldiers were dressed in their Regimenatls
The vast assemblage of People who were collect-
ed upon the occasion, were apparently much affect-
ed at the scene   and quietly dispersed.

Two detachments of the Horse Gurds, and one 
of  the Scotch Grevs  were stationed in various parts
of  St  George's  Fields, and  about the Obelisk ; but
none  in  the  immediate vicinity of the Prison : as
no appearance of riot  was  visible, the Greys march-
ed back  before noon. The Reiatlves  to the unhappy
Sufferers at that time were waiting for there bodies

At Six o'clock on Sunday evening his Majesty's
Warrant to the  Execution  of Col.  Despard  and
six of his  associates, and also an order from Lord
Petnam, for the respite of the three others under
sentence of  death reached  the New Gaol in the
Borough As the Warrant  contained a remission of
part of  the Sentence of those executed this morning,
and may not be uninterest ng, we have here given
an extract from it :

"And whereas we have thought fit to remit part
of the Sentence, viz. he taking out and burning their
bowels before their faces and dividing the bodies of
Edward Marcus Despard John Wood, J. Francis
Thomas Broughton J Segwick, Wratten A. Graham
and J, Macnamara, by their being drawn and hang-
ed and having their head severed from their bodies
according to the said Sentence only at the usual
place of execution on Monday next the 2 st  Feb.;
and for so doing this shall be your Warrant. Given
at our Court at st Jane's the 16th day of February
1803 in the 43d year of our Reign. By Majestry's
Command.

(Signed)           " Pelham.

" To our Trusty and well beloved Sheriff of
The Court of Surrey, and others whom
it may concern."

Annexed is a Copy of the Order for the Respite'
" I am commanded to signify to you the King's
Pleasure, that the execution of the Sentence of 
Death passed upon Thomas Newman, Daniel Tyn-
dale and William Lander, now in the Gaol for the
County of surrey he respited until further significa-
tion of His Majestys Pleasure.
" I am sir, your most obedient  humble servant
signed           Pelham,
To our trusty, &c. &c'

A eight  o'clock yesterday morning Colonel
Despard and his fellow-prisoners were  sent  for by
Mr Ives to attend the Chapel. They all cheerfully
obeyed the summons except Col. Despard and Mac-
namara the former assigned no reason for his refusal
but the latter said he was a Roman Catholic, and it
would not be consistant with his faith.

The Rev. Mr Winckworth read prayers, after
which he delivered a very impressive sermon,extram-
ely applicable to the situation of  the prisoners. The
text was taken from the 18th chapter of st Luke
and the 13th verse, " God be merciful to me a
sinner. " The unhappy men joined in prayer with
great devotion ; and the impression made by the
sermon was Indicative of true fortitude, contrition
for their crimes and sincere repentence'

At  this time none of the Prisoners were apprised
of the warrant for their execution being received
It was thought best to reserve the unhappy tidingis
till their minds had been fortified by the Chaplains
discourse which had the distred effect ; for when
they heard the fatal information' they seemed all
thoroughly prepared to meet. it

Colonel Despard seemed more suprised than af-
fected. The wives of the Prisoners were premitted
to stay with them the greatest part of the day Not-
hing could be more distressing than their farewel
quitting the prison. Col. Despard shewed strong
emotions of grief on the melancholy occasion.

By day-light, yesterday, Mr Ives had a proper
number of persons employed on the top of the New
Gaol, to erect a platform, and as the morning ad-
vanced, the  neighbourhood of Horsemonger-lane
began to be crowded by the populace, to see the
scaffolding completed. Towards the middle of the
day the concourse was uncomonly great,

[Glasgow Printed by J. Galbraith 