Execution.        

Account  of the Execution and  Behavior on  the Scaffold and      
since his Sentence, of WILLM.  DIVAN, who suffered
at Glasgow on Wednesday the 21st July 1824 , for the        
Murder of his own Wife, Mary Jamieson, in  Paisley Loan,     
Gorbals, on the 6th day of April last by cutting her throat,   
and his body given for dissection.                                       

Glasgow, 21st July,1824 —This day the above unfortunate man  forfeited his
life for the murder of Mary Jamieson, his wife, in  Paisley Loan, Gorbals on the
6th day of April last .   The woman was found  dead by two of her own children,
with her throat cut, when they came  home to their dinner , who then  gave the alarm,
and the police soon arrived and  searched the house ,but found nothing missing,
so that  plunder was not the object ; neither could it be from the ill will of any of
her neighbours,as she lived on the most friendly terms with them, and way loved  
by all who knew her, for kindly diposition , and for the careful manner with
which she managed her domastic concerns , especially her children.   We belive,
(though the prisoner has all along denied the commision of the horrid deed) that 
he was really the guilty person . There is not an individual who read the tried,  
but will be as fully convinced as the Judge and Jury of the fairness of the verdict            
which  was pronounced against him, and on the  issue of which being made known
to the prisoner , and after the Lord Justice clerk had addressed him in these
words ; ("his days were numbered ; he had cruelty bereft his wife of life , whom he
cught to have protected and cherished ; you stand this day at  the bar another
awful example that " murder will net hide; '' he then baseeched him to lumble
himself before God , whose laws he had so most grievously offended- mercy he had 
none ,and none he could expect on earth ,but may God have mercy   upon his  
immortal soul ;)'' even after this solemn address,  and all the advanteges of a fair 
trial conducted by upright Judges and a respectable Jury ,who would undoubtedly
look to the side of mercy ,were the least doubt remaining of his guilt,  the prisoner 
on his bended knees , and in the presence of that God before whom he was soon to              
appear ,solemnly protests his innocence of the crime for which he is to  suffer.-
Such an apeal as this ,made by a person on the brink of eternity , and knowing  
himself to be actually guilty ,fills us  with horror ,and makes usshudder at the idea                                   
of a man going to the just tribunal of God with a lie in his right hand.

Since his condemnation he has been assisted in his devotional exercises by two
of the Ministers of the Church of Rome, the Rev.  Messrs.  Scott and Murdoch of 
Glasgow, who visited  him frequintly, and paid every attention to his comfort and
edification.    He was  also attended by them in his cell on the day of execution,
(the difference in the forms of worshipe rendering the usual solemnities in the Hats
unnecessary ), and from that to the scaffold, which he asceaded  in a very becoming 
manner, and after spending a few moments on the fatal drop in commussion with
his conscience and  his God, he gave the signal, and after a few convulsive pangs
he was ushered into that state where the secrets of the heart are naked and open 
to Him with whom he has to do -After being suspended for about 35 minutes,
his body was cut down , and convyed in a coffin, and under a military escort , to
Dr. Jeffray, proffesser  of Anatomy in Glagow , to be publicly dissected. -He was 
decently dressed, and was about 47 years of age -He originally belonged to the 
country of Donegal, Ireland but has been in this country  upwards of 30 years,
a number of which he has spent in the Gorbals of Glasgow, and resided at the time 
of commiting the dead in Paisley Loan. He was some time a weaver, but latierly
sold fish along with his wife apon the streets.  She also belonged to Ireland.   By 
this horrid business, three children have been deprived of their parents, an awful
lesson to every person to beware of hasty passion, bad company, and every thing
that would in any, way , lead them from  the paths of honest industry , or that would
tempt them to gratify their desires at the expense of the life of a fellow creature,
and especially, of any one whom they are bound by the most endearing ties to pro-
tect and watch over.—He was tried at Edinburgh, on the 14th June; was sent
back here on the 21st of the same, to undergo the sentence passed upon him, which         
was put in force this day, the 21st July, 1824.                                                                       
					W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.