CONFESSION

Of JAMES WILSON, who was  Hanged at Glasgow on Wednesday last,
4th June, 1823, giving an account of upward of  30 different Robberies committed
by, him in Glasgow, Paisley, Greenock, and other parts of the country; the whole
communcated by Wilson to one of the Ministers of this City, a few days before his
Execution,

(From the Glasgow Chronicle.)                               

Mr. Editor—The following truly affecting account I received an the 30th May
instant, in one of the Iron rooms of the common prison of this city, from James
M'Lusky, otherwise Wilson. If you think it might serve to deter others from such
an unhappy course of conduct, it is at your service.
May 31st, 1823.                                             JAMES STUART, Minister.

" My parents belonged to the North of Ireland and prosessed the religion of the
Church of Rome, About 20 years ago they came to this contry, and resided at
Lochwinnoch, where I, the unfortunate James M'Clusky, was born, (for that was
my proper name,) and am sorry to relate that my father and mother lived a very
disagreeable and unhappy life, and about 10 years past they parted: my father then
took up with a woman of bad morale; and, awful to relate, one day after drinking
spirits with her, he was found dead in a field. My mother then removed to Barr-
head and from thence to Linwood, and from that to Blantyre, where, at an early
period, I indulged those baneful inclinations that led me to covet and take that
which was not my own. This pernicious propensity waxing, being in Greenock I
got 6 days of Bridewell for stealing a little sugar. After this I stopped with a
game-keeper in Lochwinnoch, and having shot some game", I sold them for my
own use I therefore had  to make my escape, and I came to Glasgow, and form-
ing an acquaintance with a lad named Johnston, we were dirnking spirits in a spirit
cellar with a woman of bad same, when a dispute arose, and I was taken to the Po-
lice Office and sentenced to be confined in Jail for ten days. After my emancipa-
tion, Johnston and I stole some lead, and with the reward of iniquity I spent that
night in a house of ill fame, and this licentious and sinful procedure helped to weave
the web of nay destruction. From that time I wrought no more with my hands to
provide things honest in the sight of God and man, but gave myself to work vice
with greediness; so that now I grew so hardened in sin, that I neither feared God
nor regarded man. I remember with bitter regret, of breaking into a gentleman's
house on the Paisley road and taking 7 silver table spoons, and 7 tea spoons and
several other articles of value. In summer last I committed a robebry at Renfrew.
I entered a gentleman's house, and finding the family fast asleep, I went from room
to room, and carried some valuable articles away. In this city, where I am now
surrouuded with iron, I had the audacity to snatch from a gentleman's pocket his
watch. Hearing of a fair in Tarbert, with some nearly as bold in the cause, we
went, there, and spent our time in theiving, picking pockets, drinking, &c. I
then went to Paisley,was suspected, and committed to Jail for 3 days Immedi-
ately I broke into the Porter's Lodge, for which I was banished from this county,
Rushing rapidly to destruction, I observed the guard of a coach sitting with the
driver, when I seized the opportunity, and bo e away a band box, with its contents,
shortly after I took another watch from a man that was intoxicated; and also two
notes from a man with whom I had spent the night in debauching. I was then ap-
prehended and whipped -this I got for my new year's gift, and nothing the better.
One more whipped, end still worse I grew, and alas, whipped again; and though
imprisoned, scourged and banished, all was abortive Having formed an acquaint-
ance  with A. R. we committed several robberies, and, last of all, I committed
that for which I was sentenced to die,

"The whole of my life has been one continued scene of misfortune and sin.    I
acknowledge before Almighty God that my sins are more in number than the hairs
of my head-that they are grievous to me, and a burden intolerable to be borne. 
Sin to me, yes, my great sin is bitterness and bondage,    I look up  to  God  alone
for mercy and pardon, through Jesus Christ, and sincerely pity all those that, would
or do put their trust in deceiving man.   I wish from the bottom of my heart, that
all who may read this account, or hear of it, or may see me suffer the last stroke of
the rigid law, may take warning by, me; and particularly I charge the young of this
city to remember to kee the holy Sabbath-day, to keep good company, to read them
Bible. te attend the church, and, above all, to give their hearts to that God that
I so long dispised, so that felicity may atend them, is the prayer of 

JAMES M. CLUSKY"

Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.