    EXECUTION


At Glasgow on Wednesday, the 29th October, 1823, of George Laid-
law, for Robbing a Jewellers Shop of Gold and Silver articles to the
amount of L.600 sterling, and Francis Cain, for Highway Robbery.

Glasgow, 29th October, 1823.
THIS day GEORGE LAIDLAW for Shop-
breaking and Theft, and  FRANCIS CAIN
for Highway Robbery, were Executed here,
pursuant to their sentence at the last Circuit
Court of Justiciary.

Laidlaw was convicted, along with George
Spittal, of breaking into the shop occupied by
Solomon & Hadkins, jewellers, Nelson Street,
Glasgow, on the 30th of March last, -and car-
rying off ten gold watches, about fifty silver
Watches, about 200 gold seals, 6  dozen gold
keys, about 5O gold rings, 40'pair of gold ear-
rings, one gold neck chain, and a great varie-
ty of other jewellery articles, to the value of
L.600 sterling.

It appears from the evidence en the trial
that Laidlaw was the planner or the robbery,
and to accomplish his object, got acquainted
with the shop-boy, and was frequently in the
shop; he at first by means of putty attempted
to take impressions of the keys; but, failing in
this, one morning as the boy was opening the
shop, borrowed the padlock from him, on
pretence that they had lost the key of the pad-
lock of their shop, and thought that his would
open it; he then went to an iron-monger's
shop and purchased a key to suit the padlock,
and then returned it to the boy.—Having suc-
ceeded thus far the unhappy Laidlaw and his
companion went to the shop one night at the
time above stated, and having tossed up a
halfpenny who should easer, the lot fell on
Spittal; who opened the door and went in, af-
ter locking the padlock to prevent suspicion,
while Laidlaw watched in the street. Having
collected as much as he could conveniently
carry, he came out, and they walked off with-
out locking the door, which the watchman on
the station soon after discovered standing o-
pen, and immediately gave notice to the Po-
lice Office.

The prisoners were unknown to the Police
as thieves, and it was only by a singular cir-
cumstance that they were discovered. The
prisoner Spittal, was offering for sale one of
the stolen watches to an acquaintance, who
wished to have a trial of it for a short time,
before he concluded the bargain which was a-
greed to by Spittal, and the person having ac-
cidentally, as he way passing, stepped into
Solomon & Hadkins, to inquire its value, they
immediately recognised it to be one of the
watches of which they hid been robbed, and
he told them from whom he got it; when Spit-
tal was immediately seized in his master's bake
house where his share of the booty was found.
Laidlaw was soon after apprehended, and his
part of the plunder was found concealed in a
cellar in Argyll Street. They were both found

guilty, but it having appeared that Laidlaw
was the most active in the planning of the rob-
bery, he was condemned to die; the  libel with
regard to his companion was restricted to an
arbitrary punishment, and he was sentenced
to transportation for life.

Laidlaw was a native of Glasgow, ana re-
ceived a suitable education; his father Being
in business for himself as a wright, "his son al-
so was learned the same occupation, and had
ha followed the example set before him by his
Parents a better fate might have availed him.

Cain was convicted, along with E. M'Caffer,
and P. M'Queen, of assaulting and robbing
Mr. James Maxwell, coppersmith, on the road
leading from shawfield Toll bar to Little Go-
vau, of a gold watch, with gold chain, & two
gold seals, a pause containing eight one pound
notes, some silver, and his bat, on the 9th of
July last. Mr. Maxwell was returing from
Rathergien about 12 o'clock at night,  where
he had been supping with  a friend) when he 
was attacked by five follows, who knocked him
down with a stab taken from an  adjoining field,
and having robbed him of all in his possession
made  of ; they then proceeded down to Long
Govan, where they had some drink, and divi-
ded the  benty; and having crossed the river
they all returned by Partick and the Sauchie-
halt road to town, where they disposed of the
gold watch, no doubt to some infamous reset-
er of stolen property, for the paltry sum of
L.3; the whole of the fruits of their crime  be-
ing squandered in the haunts of dissipation &
vics. They were all found guilty, but the
label was restricted as to M Queen, and he was
sentenced to transportation for life ; the other
two were condemned to suffer death, but M'-
Caffer was recommended to mercy, and he
accordingly received a respite during His Ma-
jesty's pleasure on Friday last.                .

Cain was born in Ireland, but has resided
with his father for a considerable time past in
the Gorbals. A younger brother has lately
been banished the county (or three year, for
theft, by a sentence of the Sheriff.

Laidlaw was attended by the Rev. Mr.
Snyth of St. George's  Church, and Cain by
the Priest of the Roman Catholic persuasion;
both of the unhappy culprits seemed perfect-
ly reconciled to a fate they could not avert.
About 3 o'clock they ascended the scaf-
fold; and after the appara us of death had
been adjusted, and a lew moments spent in
devotion, they were ushered into another, and
WE trust a better world.

Neither of the unfortunate youths had
reached their 20th year.

Printed by John Muir.