Trial and Sentence



A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of William M'Toague, and John M'Crevie,
Who are to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday
the 19th May next 1824, for Issuing Forged Notes,
and for Housebreaking and Theft.

AT Glasgow, on Wednesday the 14th April 1824, were tried
before the circuit of Justiciary, WILLIAM M'TEAGUE,
and,MARGARET M'TEAGUE, his daughter, accused of issuing,
in this city, forged Notes, upon different occasions. The father
pleaded Not Guilty, and daughter Guilty on two cases, but not
knowing them to be forged.

Mr M'Neil; after calling several witnesses, addressed the Jury
for the Crown, and restricted the libel, as to Margaret M'Teague,
as an  arbitrary punishment.

Mr White, counsel for the prisoners, then said, that if they found
William M'Teague Guilty, he hoped they would bring in a recom-
mendation to mercy.

Lord Meadowbank recapitulated the evidence, when the Jury re-
tired for about twelve minutes, and returned verdict, finding
William M'Teague Guilty of the first and third charges ; and Mar-
garet M'Teague of the first and second.

Lord Meadowbank then addressed the prisoner Margaret
M'Teague in a most feeling manner. He was sorry, he observed,
that she acted under the influence of her father. She was sentenced
fourteen years transportation.

After a few obseruations from Lord Gillies, Lord Meadowbank.
delivered a suitable address to William M'Teague, and sentenced
him to be hanged at Glasgow, on Wednesday the 19th of May next.

 David Sharp John Cameron. John M'Crevie, Daniel M'Crevie,
and Margaret Bell, were indicted for housebreaking, theft, and
stouthrief. They were charged with having, on the night of Thurs-
day the 11th of December, forcibly removed the under sash of a
window in rhe house of James Shepherd, situated at Springvale ;
and having forcibly obtainsd entry, they proceeded to the apart-
ment in which Mr Shepherd was in bed, and did, with a poker, or
some other weapon, strike him one or more violent blows, and
threatened to murder him if he did not shut his eyes, and remain
quiet. Having thus obtained masterful possession of the house,
they feloniously carried away two mahogany knife cases, ten horn
spoons, two stones of cheese, a crock, with 11lbs. of butter, a jar
of whisky, and several other articles. Further, the prisoners, with
the exception of the female, were charged with having, on the 17th
December, broken into the cellar of Alexander Peterkin situated in
Weaver Street, and stolen a number of articles of wearing apparel,
and Margaret Bell, and John M'Crevie, were charged with resetting
the goods. Sharp and Cameron were outlawed for not appearing.
The diet, against Margaret Bell, was deserted pro loco et tempore.
The other two persons pleaded Not Guilty.

The Counsel for the Crown then proceeded to prove his case,
after which the Jury having been addressed by Mr M'Noill, for
John M'Crevie, they retired for a short time, and returned with a
verdict, finding the libel Not Proven, for Daniel M'Crevie, and a
Verdict of Guilty of the first charge as libelled, and the second
second charge, Guilty of theft, against the other pannel.

Lord Meadowbank in his address to the culprit, observed, that af-
ter a patient trial, in which he had been ably defended by his coun-
sel, he had been convicted by a most respectable Jury of the firsr
charge, as libelled in the indictment, and iu the second theft.    For
the first of these he had forfeited his life, and it was now his pain-
ful duty to pronounce upon him the last sentence of the law.     He
must be taken back to the place from whence he came,  and did on
the scaffold by the hands of the executioner.    He had been found
Guilty of invading the house of an old man, Ling in that security
which is the lot of the inhabitints of this country to enjoy, and had
assaulted and deprived him of his property by force and violence.
There was no hope of pardon in his case, and he was warned to ap-
ply to the Almighty, whose power is infinate, and whoso goodness
is equal to his power.    He was then sentenced to be hanged on the
19th May.    The unhappy man was led from the bar protesting his
innocece.

Edinburgh, Printed, for Robert M'Millan, Prince One Penny.