Trial & Sentence

A full and particular account of the trial of DONALD RANKINE who was tried at the High Court of Justicary on Monday the 3d December, and was found guilty of the crime of robbery for which he was condemned to be executed at Inverary on Friday the 18th of January 1822. Also an account of the trial of Donald McKenzie who was sentenced to fourteen years transportation.

Donald Rankine was put to the bar, to receive sentence in consequence of a verdict of guilty of robbery being found against him at the Circuit Court of Inverary, but remitted to this Court to try the validity of an objection made by the prisoners counsel respecting an error in the date of the verdict and which had subsequently been decided. After a subsequent address by the Lord Justice Clerk, and information given the panel, that the recommendation of mercy should be transmitted to the proper quarter, he was sentenced to be executed at Inverary on Friday, the 18th day of January next, between the hours of 2 and 4 o’clock. — Rankine is supposed to be a native of Glasgow, and was tried at Inverary for the said crime, but in consequence of an error being found in the date of the verdict, he was remitted here for further trial.

Donal McKenzie, painter in Edinburgh, was next put to the bar, charged with robbing Lawrence Scotland of a gold chain and seal at the foot of Brodie’s close, Lawnmarket, on the evening of the 19th September last. The panel pleaded Not guilty. Mr Scotland gave evidence as to the robbery, and identified the chain, seal, and key; several other witnesses were examined relative to the circumstances attending the robbery, among whome were a number of boys who gave alarm, and otherwase aided in the apprehension of the panel, The Jury commanded for a few minutes, and returned a verdict of Guilty.

The Lord Justice Clerk commend the witness Peter Mill, one of the boys who pursued the prisoner, for his conduct in this respect, and observed that if all other boys were to followed his example, he believed less depradations of this kind would be committed.

He was sentenced to 14 years’ transportation. Whereupon the prisoner threw out some reflections against the Court; and on retiring from the bar, exclaimed — “Justice! What a Court of Justice!”

Edinburgh Printed for William Cameron.
Price one penny.