WHIPPING



A Full and Particular Account of the Trial and Sen-
tence of ALEXANDER M'KAY ,and WILLIAM
M'DONALD, for Assult and Stabbing on the Streets
of Edinburgh ; the former of whom is to be Publicly
Whipped, on a Platform at the head of Libberton's
Wynd, on Wednesday the 27th July, 1825, at one
o'Clock afternoon, and to be afterwards Banished for
Seven years ; and M'Donald, to be confined inBrid-
well forTwelve months, at Hard Labour.

ON Tuesday the  12th July, 1825, came on before the High
Court of Justiciary, the Trial of ALEXANDER M'KAY
and WILLIAM M'DONALD, accused of assaulting and striking
William Wilson, blacksmith, in the Grassmarket of the city, in may
last, and of stabbing him with a pocket-knife in the side, to the
effusion of his blood,  and  danger of his  life.    M'Kay,  pleaded
Guilty,   and  M'Donald   Not  Guilty.       (M'Kay,  it  will   be  re-
membered, was convicted some time ago for shop-breaking, and
sentened to be executed,but escaped inconsequence of its having been
found that one of the jury was a minor.) from the evidence of
William Wilson, it appeared, that on the evening of the 25th of
May last, he was going towards his  home, in  the  Cowfeeder-row
through the Graassmarket, when the prisoner M'Donald came up to
him, from a group of about six persons,who were on  the  opposite
side of the street, and firist asked him some queston, to   which  he
replied he was mistaken, and walked on, but the prisoner followed
and struck him, when witness riturned the blow, and knocked him
down.     M'Kay then struck Wilson, and was served by him in the
same manner.  they both, however, rose, and again attacke Wilson,
when M'Donald was again  struck down,   but in  the  meantime,
M,Kay struck the witness below the left briest.     He  at  firist  felt
only a blow but soon: found that he was wounded, and ran up to a
watchman, whom he told he was   stabbed,  and  showed  him   the
blood flowing down his side,   under  his clothes    The   two  pris
oners came up, and were seized and  carried  to the  Police  office,
where his wounds was examined by the surgeon.    He was confined
to bed for ten days, in consequence of the wound.     He stated that
he had done nothing to provoke the assult, but was walking quitly
along with his hands in his pocket.    He still felt uneasiness   from
the wound when at work,

Alexander Irvine a brassfounder, who was a bystander on the
occasion, described the aussult almost in the same words as Wilson
had done, and stated further, that M'Kay came up towards the
watchman, when he saw a knife in his hand, which soon, however,
disappeared, but he understood it was afterwards found near the
spot by a watchman,and witness now identffied it.

Aurther Morgan, a wrtchman assisted in taking the prisoners to
the police office, and returning afterwards to the place, found the
knife, which he indentified.but could not say if there was blood on
it at the time.

Alexander Black, strgeon to the police estibishment, decribed the
the wound which was as deep as the whole length of the blade
(about two inches.) Wilson lost a great deal of blood, and was in a
very dangerous state. The knife fortunately struck on the fifth rib,
and glanced upwards upon the forth else, it must instantly have
have proved fatal.

The jury returned a viva voice verdict, finding M'Kay guilty of
the assault and stabbing, and M'Donald guilty of assulting and strik-
ing as libelled, and M'Kay was sentenced to be publicly whipped
on a platform to beerected at the common place of executions, between
the hours of twelve and two, on Wednesday the 27th July current,
previous to transportation beyond seas for seven years, and M'Donald
to be confined in Bridwell for twelve months, and during that period
to be kept at hard labour.

Edinburgh: Printed for Wilham Robertson... Price One Penny.



