DIALOGUE.

A LITTLE COMEDY OF

MARRIAGE.

Dramatis    Personæ,—FALKLAND,    BELCOUR,

This popular  Dialogue can   always be had at the   Poet's   Box.
182 OVERGATE,   DUNDEE.

	Enter Belcour and Falkland,
FaIk.    What, Belcou ! how are you my friend? 	
	you look sad.
Bal. No. do I ?
Falk. Do you ! why you are but the shadow of
	what you were. Some little attachment eh?
Be!. Well to confess it, I am horribly in love,
lost, utterly lost, to a lady or rather an angel,
with rich dark hair, a fair complexion, sparkling
eyes, lips like rubies, teeth like pearls, a voice
like a nightingale, a figure like a fairy, and a
fortune of £10,000.
Falk. You dont say so!
Bel.    Dont I, but I do though, she has the soft-
ness of Pysebe, the beauty of Venus, the presence
of Juno, the virtue of Diana, the wisdom of Min-
erva, and—ten thousand pounds.
Falk.    Then I suppose you are engaged to her ?
Bel.    Yes, that is it, partially, not altogther.
Falk.    Have you proposed ?
Bel.    No, not proposed but I have insinuated
Falk. And she received the insinuation favourbly
Bel.    Certainly.
Falk.    Then she did—
Bel.    No she didn't, she said nothing, but she
	did oh ! she did—
Falk.    What did she do ?
Bel.    Why smiled such a smile like "morn oe'r
	the east advancing.
Falk,    Perfectly satisfactory.
Bel.    Well, I must own, I am a little uneasy,
	but by persevering attention and unlimited
	profession will, I trust, at length —
Falk. Carry off the £10,000, eh ! in the mean-
time I can sympathize with you, I am in love,
under similar circumstances, with I lady of for-
tune, who, I believe regards me with a favour-
able eye, who, like your lady love sings like a
nightingale, looks like a fary, dances like a
zephyr, and sometimes frowns like a thunder-
storm, though for myeelf I like her all the better
for that she does so prettily, in fact, she is all
you described your lady, but ten times more
enchanting.
Bel. Impossible I mine is a perfect woman.

Falk.    And mine is a perfect angel.
Bel. Mine has all the charms of Venus; such a
	foot and ankle; oh! you should see her dance
	the Polka !
Falk. And mine has the charms of Venus, with
	those of Juna and Minerva into the bargain.
Bel.    But my adored has such a mind; she under-
stands Gree—that is, the alphabet, she thanks
she once read Locke on the understanding she
has thoroughly sifted the corn matter; she plays
Jullien's quadrills at the first sight and whist
like an old dowager of siventy.
Falk. But mine knows—oh ? I don't know what
	mine don't know.
Bel.    My beloved has such a name, so msuical.
Falk. Oh! if you talk of names, I am sure you
	can't surpass mine there, what think you of
	Charlotte Amelia Caroline Augusta Clara
	Georgina Kitz-Urse ?
Bel.    Say that name again.
Falk. Think you my lungs are onely moder-
	ately strong, I do not wish to exhaust them
Bel. Did you say Charlotte Amelia Caroline
	Augusta Clara Georgina Fitx-Urse.
Falk.    Yes! what's the matter ?
Bel. Why that is the lady I am paying address-
	es.
Falk. What, the lady that was ten time more
	angelie than mine? oh! impossible.
Bel.,    It is not onely possible but true.
Falk.    My dear Belcour surly you jest?
Bel.    No there is a boundry in jestiug wich on
	gentlemen ever passes, I was never more in
	earnest, that lady, I am determined,   shall
	become my wife.
Falk.    Determind! she may refuse you.
Bel.    Not so; for that which we have fixedly
	resolved happen, usually does, the daring
	man is always the successful one.
Falk.    Then hear me, Belcour ! that lady, I am
	resolved, shall, If possib e, become my wife;
I would sooner see her her coffin, of he stark
	and cold in my own (sent there by the hand
	of a friend) than that she shall be yours.

WILLIAM  SHEPHERD  PROPRIETOR,