DISCOVERY  OF A  MOST SHAMEFUL AND

INFAMOUS  DEN

IN  THE  NEW TOWN OF EDINBURGH.

This day is Published,   the   Full Particulars  of the
Proceedings   which  have been lately carried on in that
Infamous Den in  St David's Street,   Edinburgh ;   with
the examination of Mr and  Mrs Balfour, and 2 young
Ladies,    belonging   to    that   Splendid   Establishment,
charged with decoying female children from the School,
and enticing from their Parents, for the vile intentions,
of certain beastly Noblemen and Gentlemen who are in
the habit  of frequenting that abominable  house.

It is seldom our painful duty to have to record a
case so degrading as the one we are about to present
to the public. Humiliating as the case certainly is,
the publishing of it way be the means of putting parents
and guardians of youth on the alert—of guarding against
the machinations of such vile seducers—and let those
beasts in the shape of gentlemen who encourage such
abominable practices know, that ways and means may
be used to stigmatize their name and blast their reput-
tion—The following is taken from the Scotsman.

ATROCIOUS CASE—A man and woman of the  name of Balfour
keepers of a brothel in  St David Street—a dashing courtizan—and a
young female were on Friday brought to the bar of the Police Court,
on a charge of entising a girl of 14 years of age into their house, and
with cetaining her against  her will,   from the afternoon of Tuesday
till the forenoon of Wednesday last.     It appeared from the evidence
that the younger prisoner (a girl  adout 15 years of age ) was gener-
ally employed   as a decoy  to  entice young females  into  this den of
infamy;  and  that,   within   a very short period, a   large number had
become her victims, one of whom, as well as the child on whose ac-
count this charge was brought forward, was examined as a witness.
The details given by this child are af the  most revolting and atrocious
it is possible to conceive.     The children   were   first decoyed to the
house on a pretext of paying a visit, treated with great kindness, and
showy trinkets and dresses promised to them.    On a repetition of one
or two such visits they were generally detained—and, as swo rn to by
the little girl who was destined to be the last victim--forcibly detain-
ed- This child stated that she was decoyed from school, but un-
fortunately there were no witnesses  to corroborate her forcible de-
tention. The prisoners were accordingly dismissed, after a serious
admonition from Bailie Thomson, which along with the burst of
execration from the audiencs at their dismissal, is likely to ring in
their ears  till the day of their death.

ANOTHER ACCOUNT.

The Authorities for the   last   two or three days, have been engaged
in the investigation of a charge of a most brutal and revolting nature
brought  against   a brothel   keeper,  and which   has excited   a feeling
little short of  that   experienced at   the   detection of  Burke and his
associates  .   A poor   little   girl aged 13, the daughter of a  respectable
tradesman, stated that she had been enticed   into  the   house  alluded
to, and kept in close confinement for   two days, when she was toreed
into the company of a BRUTE, who   behaved   to her in a manner too
shocking to be related.     A great many  witnesses, were examined, but
ulimately  the Magistrate dismissed the case for want of proof.    It
was also stated  that a  regular  practice   of decoying   young  females
had been carried on   for some  time,  and the  names or nicknames of
several  gentlemen connected with this thriving establishment given.
We fearlessly tell  the Public Authorities,   whose duty
It is to look  after such matters,   not shrink from doing
their duty;   that  the  description of some   individuals
caused of  promoting and   carrying   on the above  base,
and unmanly crimes bave been stated, and that neither
wealth nor station should b sufficient to shield them,
FORBES,   PRINTER, EDINBURGH. 
	
