Strange Affair.

Particular Account of JOHN WOOD, who is now
under sentence of death at Perth, and is to be
Executed there on FRIDAY the 16th July,
and what is wonderful is to be tried at Edin-
burgh the day before his Execution, for another
crime, Housebreaking and Theft, and though
he should be cleared of the second indictment,
he must suffer the day following for his first of-
fence, being one of the most singular circum-
stances which has ever occurred in Scotland.

The above unfortunate young man, who was condemned
along with another young man of the name of Donnelly, for
Housebreaking and Theft at Perth, at the last Circuit Court
of Justiciary there, and were sentenced to be Hanged at Perth
on the 4th of June last, and who received a respite of one month,
and another for a fortnight, are to be Executed on Friday first,
the 16th July, 1824.

What makes this case so remarkable, is the fact, that he is
to be tried  the day previous to his Execution at Perth, in Edin-
burgh, upon au another indictment, charging him with House-
breaking and Theft in the house of a respectable Gentleman in
the same neighbourhood. The reason for this strange step We
are not acquainted with, as the newspapers do not assign the
particular motive. They say, that he has been blamed with a
departure from the religion of his fathers, which they who
have attended him in his devotional exercises positively deny.
Be that as it may, any person of common sense would never
for a moment suppose that a new trial would be brought for-
ward on account of the religious principles which, the man
professes; perhaps, it is quite the contrary, and may be done
to satisfy both the ends of justice and the prisoner. Let the
issue be what it may, it cannot be worse for the prisoner than
the punishment he is already doomed to suffer, except the agi-
tated state in which it may place him, his end being so near
at hand. We believe the whole affair to be nothing more
than to fairly investigate the business, and to bring the guilty
to that punishment which such a crime merits.

Every person will naturally feel for the unfortunate man,
for being taken from place to place in this awful situation,
but it is infinitely better the case be investigated that it  may
appear whether he be innocent or guilty.

                                                           W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow.