Trial

And Sentence.

Account of the Trial and Sentence of
John Wright, and James Nichol,
for breaking into Merchiston castle,
for which Wright is sentenced to be
executed at Edinburgh, on Wednes
the 16th day of April next. and NI
col banished.

This day, (Thursday, 13th March,1823,) came on before the
High Court of Justiciary, the Trial of John Wright, and  Nicol,
accused of breaking into Merchiston Castle at the head of
Bruntsfield Links, in the month of December last.

Wright pled Not Guilty, Nicol pled Guilty.

The principal witnesses were Mr and Mrs Yule, who live at
the lodge of the castle, and both identified the prisoners as
those whom they had seen at the castle on the day of the rob-
bery. Mr Yule had left the castle in a secure state about 2 in
the afternoon, and on returning at 4 he found the property in
the house in an altered state, several articles being packed up
evidently for the purpose of being carried away. He also met
with the prisoners on the premises, and collared Nicol ; upon
which Wright swore an oath and called upon Nicol to draw a
knife and stab witness. Nicol placed his hand on his breast for
the purpose of drawing a knife, where upon witness let him go.
The prisoners made their escape, but one of them left his hat.

A police officer apprehended the prisoners the same evening
in the Crassmarket

The jury returned a verdict finding both panuels Guilty.
The public prosecutor restricted the law in the case of Nicol.

The cries of Wright imploring for mercy prevented the Lord
Justice Clerk from prououncing sentence for some minutes.
There were some females in Court who were deeply affected.

The Lord Juslice Clerk, amidst the cries and lamentattons
of the prisoner, proceeded to pass the last sentence of the law
on him ; which was, that he be Executed at Edinburgh, on the
16th of April. His Lordship then sentenced Nicol to be
transported beyond seas for life, and trusted that the scene he
had just witnessed would impress on his mind the awfulness of
the precipice he had so narrowly escaped.

Wright is a fine looking young man, seemingly about 20
years of age.

PRICE ONE PENNY.         