THE   LAST

SPEECH,

Confession and dying words of JAMES DORMAND, who
was execute at Perth, on Friday the 31st of May 1793.
for Four crimes of Highway Robbery.

JAMES DORMAND, was a native of, and born in the north of Ireland, only
 aged 19 years, of honest and respectable parents, who, gave him an education
suitable to their situation, and to his capacity, but to Which, it appears, he paid little
attention; he was brought up to the manufacturing line; but being of a roving and wild
disposition, could not settle at his business, and neglecting his work for days, and even
sometimes for a whole week together, caused his masters to make heavy complaints to
his parents and cautioners, but of all the remonstrances that could be used with him was
of no affect, on the contray, it rather hardened him in his wicked and vicious courses.
He at last left his business and absconded altogether, taking with him money, and some
other articles, part of which he stole from his father and mother, &c He then went to
Dublin, and fell in to the chapman way, but he had not been long there when his mas-
ter advertised him; having notice of which, he shipped for Scotland, and along with
him one Robert Rogers, who was convicted of the same crime, and is now lying in jail,
under his Majesty's, respite for three weeks. They then came to Glasgow selling their
goods, travelling through the country, until they came to Dundee; and having both
engaged themselves to one of the menufacturing houses in that place, continued now
and then at their work until such time as this last robbery which they committed was
found out.

When Rogers and Dormand left Dublin, they landed at Saltcoats, and coming on
the road betwixt Irvine and that place, they fell in with a young women, whom, it is
confidently said, they murdered and robbed her of a bundal, which she was carrying;
whether this be absolutely truth or not we cannot positively say, at any rate the woman
was murdered on that road about two years ago, and her body dragged into the inside of
a hedge. She was seen walking on the road in company with a soldier some time be-
fore, but he wanting a refreshment, went into a public house, and insisted very much on
her to go in with him, but she positively declined. The man having refreshed himself
pursued his journey, and having gone a good way, he met as he still supposes, this Dor-
mand and Rogers, with the young women's, bundal in one of their hands, which he
knew some way off, but took no thought how or what way it came into their possession,-
and still continuing his march, he saw some blood on the road which he traced to the
inside of the hedge, where he found the murdered body lying, upon which, the soldier
immediately concluded, that these two men he had seen before with her bundle, were
the actors of this horird deed.

Such is the report that has gone abroad, if it be true, it is hoped that Dormand will
confess it with sincere and contrite repentance before he is launched into endless eternity,

Dormand confesses that he has been guilty of many enormous crimes, and of being much
addicted to drink and bad company, both of which he could not refrain ; he said. For
him to enter into a particular detail of the many crimes he has been guilty of, would only
tO the public.

He confessed with four roberries in and about Dundee, with several other petty crimes,
particularly that for which he was sentenced; and regrets the taking the watch from the
farmer, which, with 2 l. I OS. was all they robbed him of. Their acquaintances offered the
farmer forty pounds sterling, if he. would declare at their trial that the watch was not his.

This unfortunate young man has appeared very penitent for this some time past, and
expressed a great deal of thankfulness that he had got so long a time to think seriously of
his evil ways, and prepare for another world; he said he was much obliged to the inhabi-
tants, the clergy, and the jailors, for the great knidness they had shown to him since he
was under sentence of death ; and expressed his thankfulness to those gentlemen who had
interceeded for his Majesty's clemency towards him ; and hoped, that as his (brother in ini-
guity) Rogers, had got a rspite for a short time, he would obtain a free pardon ; and beg-
ged of him to keep always in mind how narrow an escape he has made, and shun the ap-
pearance of all evil, and learn to do well; and exhorted him not to forget his fatal excite,
and that, without a sincere repentance, their always awaited a punishment, either sooner
or latter, for those that does evil. 

                                JAMES DORMAND

