TWO DIFFERENT RAPES.

A Particular Account of the Trial and Sentence of JOHN MIL-
LER, WILLIAM STORRIER and WM. ROBERTSON, for
two different Rapes, of a most horrid nature, and committed at
different times, who is to be Executed at Cupar in Fife, on the
31st of October next.

At Perth, on Friday the l8th September, 1822, John Miller and William Storrier. ac
used of the crime of an assault, with intent to commit a rape on a girl about 14 years of
age in the neighbourhood of Glammis, on the 5th of May last, were placed at the bar.—
he Court was cleared, and the prisoners pleaded Not Guilty.    A considerable number of
witnesses were examined for the prosecation, as were likewise a number in exeulpation on
behalf of the pannels.

Mr Hope addressed the Court for the prosecution, and Mr Thomson for Miller and Storr-  
ier, after which the evidence was summed up by one of their Lordships, and the jury
after having been enclosed for nearly an hour,  returned a verdict, by a plurality of voice,
finding the pannels guilty of an assault, with an intent to commit rape,

On Saturday the 11th, the Court met, and Miller and Storrier were again brought for
ward Mr Hope moved the judgment  of the Court, and Mr Thomson  a Liressed  it at con- .
siderable length in mitigation of punishment. Lord Hermand, in a speed, of great length
pointed out the aggravated nature of the crime of which the pannels had been convicted
and proposed that they should, in addition to the punishment of transportation, be whipped
through the town of Dundee.              

 Lord Succoth said, that the pannels had been both assisting in an attempt to commit this
brutal act. The occurrence was rare of two men being engaged in such a horrid crime,
and made it appear in a more disgusting light. There had been cases in which greater
marks of violence had been exhibited, but that would not, in any way, militate in their
favour. It was not necessary for the pannels to knock down the girl, because, from her
tender years, she was unable to resist the strength of two men. It was also proved, that
they had gone deliberately about their criminal purpose, by dragging the girl into a wood ;
this shows, that they were determined to effect, their object—the girl crying out and mak-
ing ail the resistance she could. It appeared in evidence, that the girl, who was only 14
years of age, continued in a state of fever for some days after. His Lordship conclude a,
by addressing the pannels in a most impressive manner, as to what ought to be the line of
conduct pursued by them after they should leave this country. The sentence of the Court
Was  read, ordaining Miller and Storrier to be publicly whipped thro' the town of Dundee,
on the 4th day of October next, and thereafter to be banished beyond seas for 14 years.

William Robertson, accused of a.similar act, was then put to the bar; the Court was
cleared, and was shut from 11 to past 7 o'clock at  night. In the course of that time, a
great number of witnesses, both tor the prosecution and in exculpation, were examined,—
The general outline of the evidence was understood to be, that the female, who lived near
Cupar Fife, had been violently assaulted, severely wounded, and actually ravished by the
pannel. After some pleading by the Counsel for the Crown and the prisoner, and the case
being summed up by one of their Lordships, the jury retired, and were enclosed for about
an hour, when they returned with a.verdict, finding, by a plurality of'voices, the pannel
guilty of rape, but unanimously and strongly recommended him to mercy.

Lord Succoth addressed Robertson in a short, but most energetic speech, stating that the
Court had no alternative but to pass the last sentence of the law. Lord Hermand also made
a few observations on the nature and enormity of the offence, and concluded by sentencing
Robertson to be Hanged at Cupar Fife, on the 31st October next.

The prisoner heard the awful doom pronounced with great composure and.firmness.—-
He was a good looking middle aged man, and has a family. .

                                                                                W. Carse, Printer, Glasgow