A New-Years-Gift:
RESPECTFUL   WISH,

From the Hand of a Stragger who (upon the 28th, of November)
was a Sufferer by the Fire which happened in the Canongate.

TO
MY   LORD   BALMERINO 

MAY  this Years Influence, the Nation Bless,
With Native Product, and with Good Success;
Begin with Peace, and end in Happiness.
Good as the Best, and Better than the  Last,
Better than  that,   in  which for Touch, and Taste,
The first made Two,   was out  of Eden cast.

A Year,  that  may Entitle  all  to  Reft,                 
With hopes  uncommon. Comfort   the  Distrest ;
(Tho great)   the  shortest Sorrows, are the  best.
A Year, that may prove faithful  to  the Crown,
Oblige the Sword,   the Mitre and  the  Gown,
With  one  consent  to pull Injustice down.

But  leaving this, my   Thoughts  a while shall stray,
Tend'ring to Truth, the Duty  of the Day,
And turn  my Tide of   Ink  another way.

In praise of Truth, an honest Muse may Pride,

Which makes me hope, since mine makes Truth her Guide,

These   following   Wishes, may   be  Verified.

Therefore do  Wish,   but  Wish  without Dispair,

If  With well  meant, could lessen  humane Care ;

The  purport  of this  Wish,  may be  your Share.

May   Fortune gracious  be, not vent  her  Spight,
On   such as you, that   do to  all Men Right;
But on  your Foes, may all her Malice light.

For Foes there arc,  tho Goodness cannot  see,
Where in  the  Grass they   lye,   and lurking   be;
But  Christ himself had some!  And why not we,

May  all  good   Things  below,   become  your Due,

More than the Sun doth, in   a   Twelve-Month  view ;

And make an  Union between your GOD,  and You.

May  Head, and   Heart,  and all  your Thoughts be bent,

More on the Joys of Heaven,  than Self-Content;

And may  his Grace,   be the  Equivalent.

All which I Wish, may firmly  with you  stay,

And  Years to come,  be all Serene and  Gay,

While there's a  Sun,  a  Moon,  a Year,  a Day.