AN ACCOUNT OF THE

PUBLIC FLOGGING

Of EDWARD HAND through the Streets of Glasgow, on
Wednesday the 25th September, 1822, for committing a vio-
lent Assault on the person of a young  Girl under 12 years
of age, at Greenock. Also, the Judge's Address to the pri-
soner on passing Sentence.

HAND was convicted at the last Circuit Court at Glasgow, of an attempt to ra-
vish Mary Ann Smart,a girl of only  12 years of age, at Greenock, in July
last.   The case of course was gone into with closed doors, but after the examina-
tion of several witnesses, he was convicted on the clearest evidence.

Lord Meadowbank then shortly addressed the prisoner, commenting with much
energy on the enormity of his guilt, considering his age (above 40), and his being
the head of a family.  He hoped he would mend his life, and make up his peace with.
an offended God. Besides being for ever separated from his country, he would also'
have to undergo a corporal punishment, and on the 25th of this month he would
be taken from the Tolbooth, and whipt through the streets of this City by the hand
 of the Common Executioner; and if every lash that was laid on his body did not
at one for his crime, it was hoped it would at least bring repentance. In the coun-
try he was going to he would be strictly looked after, and although good conduct
would receive its due reward, a very trifling offence would be severely punished.—
He was then sentenced to be whipped and afterwards transported for life.

Glasgow, 25th Sept.—This being the day on which he was to undergo the whip-
ping, about 12 o'clock a detachment of the 7th dragoons drew up before the east
door of the prison, a cart soon after arrived, and the prisoner was immediately
brought out, when the Executioner tied his hands to the cart, which was surroud-
ed by a numerous posse of peace officers, police officers, constable, &c., the whole
guarded by the dragoons. The cavalcade then proceeded to the front of the jail
where he received twenty lashes, which he seemed to feel very keenly; it then pro-
ceeded west to the foot of Stockwell where the punishment was again repeated; and
also  at  the  head of Stockwell, and at the Cross, making 80 stripes in all., His back
was much lacerated and bleeding profusely. Although the day was very wet, anim-
mense crowd attended; and all the windows of the shops in the streets through which
the cavalcade passed were shut up.

Hand is an Englishman, about 40 or 45 years of age, stout made, and is a glass-
blower to trade.

The crime for which the above culprit suffered, we are sorry to say is now become
very frequent in this country no less than three persons are to suffer the punish-
ment of the law at Perth in a few days—one with death, and two by public whip-
ping Another case at Ayr has been sent to the High Court of Justiciary at Edin-
burgh—the whole bringing to light a depravity of morals, and an indulgence of
passions of such a black and brutal, nature, that we thought existed not in any class
of, the community.

					Printed by John Muir, Glasgow.