Execution.

Account of the Execution and Behaviour on the Scaffold, of
JAMES STEVENSON, for highway robbery, who suffer-
ed at Glasgow, on Wednesday morning, the 1st of June,
1825; to which is added, his confession and last dying words,
which he left with a friend who visited him in the jail.

                             GLASGOW, 1st June, 1825.

This morning, the above unfortunate young man underwent the awful sentence
pronounced against him at the last Circuit Court, for knocking down and robbing
John Brown of  £25, two watches, and a variety of other articles, on the Cathcart
Road, last winter, aggravated by feloniously and violently assaulting him to the
confusion  of his blood. Since his condemnation he has been attended by the Rev.
Mr. Muir, and Mr. Morrison, Chaplain to the jail, and several other Ministers.—
He has all along behaved in a very decent and becoming manner, paying every
mention to the admonitions of his instructors,  who were most  diligent in turning
his views from this world of sin and trial, to that  brighter and  happier state, which
a prepared  for all those, who, by sincere repentance  are, seek for'glory, honour and
immortality. After the usual preparatory services in  the Hall, the prisoner pro-
eveded to the scaffold, decently dressed in black, where, after spending a few mi-
nutes in prayer, he gave the signal, and was launched into an invisible state. The
whole solemn caremony occupied about an hour and a half, from a little after 8 to
hearly 10, which prevented the usual bustle in the streats in the middle of the day.
Annexed  is the confession he made to a friend who attended him in jail, and who
desired  it to be published for a warning and advice to all.

I, JAMES  STEVENSON, aged 21, was  born in Glasgow, of decent honeat
parents, who instilled me in the paths of virtue and honesty, and in which I
continued to  walk for  some time, till  seduced by evil company, I went on from
one  degree of vice to another, when I was at last overtaken by  the hand  of jus-tice
, and this day suffered for the crime of  which I  was found Guilty by a jury of
my country, and  the justice of which I  acknowledge ; as a warning to others  to
keep from bad company and crime, the following  stanzas' are addresssed, in the
hope  that they  will afford a seasonable and  wholesome lesson.

O let all men'a warning take
At my unhappy  fate,
And from then folly to awake,
Before it is too late.

Let not the thirst of wealth you lead,
To acts of cruelty,
But  in  the paths of virtue tread,
And  shun the fatal tree,

shame and disgrace attend me now,
I  guilty plead  to all ;
Submissive to my fate I bow,
And wait death's dreadful call.

But oh! the  pangs of dire remorse,'
BY which my bosom's rent,
More  painful  far than death to bear;
Oh ! how my heart relents.           

To what distress then have I brought,
My friends and parents dear,
Yes,  their  disgrace I sure have wrought,
Which full soon will appear.

If penitence and inward grief;
Will  for my crime atone,
I surely will find  some relief,
For acts that I have done.

But should my Saviour me receive,
And mercy on me  have,
I then should die in peace, nor grieve
To court the Silent grave.

Then let my fate  a warning be,
To all mankind  made known,
And from it shun the fatal tree,
That I did suffer on.

The above young man had no regular employment; he worked  in one of the
sand boats in taking sand out of Clyde when apprehended  he has left some rela-
tions both here and in Kilmarnock, among whom is his mother; his father is dead.
He resided  latterly in the Calton.

                                                                        W. Carse Printer, Glasgow.