A Full, True, and Particular Account of the GREAT
BATTLE fought by ROBINSON and CROSBIE,
in a field near West Craigs, on Saturday last, the
llth day of June 1825, for 200 Sovereigns.

ON Saturday last, the llth of June, 1825, the great boxing
match between Crosbie, the Glasgow pugilist, and Robinson,
the Yorbshiroman, for 200 sovereigns, took place hear West Craigs,
about 23 miles west from Edinburgh.          

At about half-past 11 the Commissariat Department commenced
operations in forming the ring, and at about 15 minntes before 1,
Robinson, with his second, Tom Reynolds, entered, and modestly
threw up his castor. He was received with considerable applause.
Crosbie soon followed (loud cheering from the Glasgow bodies),
and after bowing respectfully to the immense multitude collected,
in imitation of Robinson threw up his beaver in token of defiance.
Crosbie then shook hands with Robinson, and said, " he hoped he
was well," observing, " that if he (Crosbie) was beat that day, he
was beat in better condition than ever he had entered a ring before,"
Robinson, in reply, said, " I am glad to hear that you are well, that
he was well himself,and hoped it would be a good fight." The
men then commenced peeling. Dunn and M'Neill for Crosbie,
colours blue, and yellow spot. Reynolds and M'Gee for York—
crimson, and white spot. Betting even.

Round 1. After some cautious sparring, Crosbie made feint,
Robinson hit left on the listener, and Crosbie staggered nearly
down, recovered, and came smiling up to scratch, but was floored
by one-two, on the upper part of the head, that dropt him.

2.     Crosbie dashed for the upper works of his antagonist; Robin-
son parried and broke ground     Crosbie next made a visit to  the
victualling officie, and it told slightly, but Robinson rallied, closed,
and threw his man a severe cross buttock.

3.    On Crosbie's coming to the scratch, the claret was seen slight-
ly trickling down from his left lug.   Robinson received a left hand-
ed hit on the works that crimsoned the velvet.—Dunn cried out,
" First blood ;" but Robinson pointed with his finger to his antagon-
ist's listener.    Crosbie broke into a rally, and received some severe
hits about the neck, was closed, and thrown.

4.    Crosbie made play for the body without effect.    Robinson
retaliated, by unmercifully administering the pepper box on the mug
of his antagonist: it was claretted all  over, and, a grand finale to
the round.   Robinson caught hold of his man and threw him with
a terrific cross buttock.

5.     Crosbie sported an ugly cut  under  his left ogle, the right in
deep mourning, and the snuff box and potatoc trap  very much the
worse fore wear; yet he came smiling and as pleasant as if at play,
his pluck was the admiration of the ring; for any person could see,
even at this period of the fight, that he had no chance whatever, but
his brave  heart seemed to soar above the storm  that was  pelting
round his head ; he dashed in and drew claret  slightly from under
Robinson's eye, but was floored by a left and right.

6.     Robinson broke into a rally with both hands in distance,
and, after giving some severe punishment, dropt his man.

7.    The same as last.

8.     Crosbie hit right and left, but stopped by Robinsod, tried it
again, and again foiled and returned on severely.    A rally, both
down in a struggle for the throw.    In falling they came down near
Reynolds' legs, and Crosbie's seconds called out foul, and said Rey-
nolds had saved Robinson from the severity of the fall, by placing
his knee in the way; but the umpires declared they did not see any
thing of the kind.

9.   Robinson rallied right and left, hit his man to all directions
of the ring.    In fact, Crosbie was  so chanceried that he  did not
know what he was doing, and sometimes turned his back to   his
man.    He was sent down in a most distressed state.

10.  Crosbie's daylights at this period of the battle were of little
use, and from the exertions he had made to turn the fate of war, he
merely came up (almost mechanically), his nature not allowing him
to speak the dreadful word....enough !

11.   Robinson seemed resolved not to lose the advantage he had
gained, for he milled his antagonist against the ropes, and from there
to the middle of the ring and back again.    Indeed, it appeared like
Harlequin and the bat of magic milling the clown.    Poor Crosbie
was again floored,

12.   Robinson again at work like a cooper round a cask.    Cros-
bie dropt as if shot.

13th and last round....Robinson would not give a half chance
away, and went in as if he had just begun. Crosbie was again
grassed in a manner that excited one general opinion....and that was
that he ought to be taken away at the conclusion of the round.
Crosbie's second said he should fight no more. Reynolds instantly
thre w up the skull shalck, and Robinson, in a style that would have
done, honour to a veteran pugilist, kindly shook hands with his
fallen opponent, and expressed a hearty wish that he might soon
recover from the effects of the battle.

Printed for ALEXANDER TURNBULL—Price One penny.