A Full and Particular Account of that Funny and
Laughable WEDDING that took place in Cross-
causeway, Edimburgh, on Tuesday Evening, the
15th March 1815, between a young Dashing High-
land Lad, and a well known Old Lady of that place.

THE following' ludicrous circumstance excited an extraordinary
sensation in the crosscauseway and neighbourhood, on Tues-
day evening, the 15th March instant. It appears that a young,
blooming good looking lad, of the name of M'L------, a watchman
of' very captivating exterior, had, for a considerable period previous,
paid his addresses to a well known old Lady, a purifier of tripe, re-
siding in that place, (better known by another appelation, H----------
Mary, who at length yielded to his ardent and pressing suit, and
Tuesday was mutually fixed on for the celebration of their nuptials.

The fair enamorate, in order, as it would seem, to engratiate her-
self the more deeply into the good graces and favour of her future
Lord, impressed Twenty-five Sovereigns into his hands, in order,
she said, to make him appear very genteel on the occasion, and par-
ticularly to provide him with a new watch, a necessary appendage,
of course, to a gentleman. She also undertook to furnish a most
splendid marriage banquet, which was accordingly ordered, and to
which a gaeat number of the friends, relations and acquaintances of
both parties were formally invited.

Accordingly, at the appointed hour, the company assembled, in
their gayest apparel, among whom were a great many Knights of
the baton, in fine trim. The modest blooming bride appeared
among the astonished natives, dressed in eastern splendom and
magnificence, the very silk gown worn by her on this happy occa-
sion, like the Laird of Dumbiedykes' mother's gowns, would stand
its lane on the floor, it was so rich, and the other parts of her costly
dress corresponded with the gown. She continued to grace the
happy assemblage with her presence, for a considerable time after
the hour appointed, smiling sweetly to some, and courtseying mo-
destly to othsrs, in great good humour, of course, anxiously expect-
ing the arrival of her happy lover, to crown her wishes at the hymen-
eal altar.

The clergyman having arrived about this time, to which the now
most anxious and impatient bride was  introduced,  but there  was
still no word of Mr M'L-----.    The minister sat down beside the
bride, who encouraged her to hope, that her beloved partner would
soon make his appearance, and ease all her anxious doubts and fears,
which now became evident to the whole company. With some
pleasant chat. and the assistance of an occasional cordial glass now
and then, the reverend gentleman managed to prolong the pleasing
hopes of the arrival of the long expected bridegroom for several
hours after the time previously appointed ; but it was now become
pretty evident that Mr M'L------did not intend to make his appea-
rance at all, for he fairly absconded.

It appeared  that Mr M'L------had  adopted the notion, thac he
would exhibit his finery to much more advantage upon the Highland
hills, than on the streets of auld Reekie.

The chagrin of the disappointed bride was now awful in the ex-
treme but she could not still help but encourage the pleasing hope,
that the bewitched enchanting man would not deceive her yet.  It
turned out otherwise, however ; and the old lady fell into an awful
hysterical fit, from which a glass of gaod brandy was scarcely able
so recover her. At last, finding herself really abendoned, and that
the could not better herself, she allowed herself to be put into good
spirits again, by repeated applications of strong water. At her sug-
gestion, the party par-ook of their elegant and sumptuous supper,
consisting of every delicacy of the season, and the good old Lady
comforted herself for the loss of her false admirer, by repeated and
potent doses of Uisgebetha, mollified with  hot wateo and sugar,
after supper, the catgut scraper struck up a merry lilt, and they con-
tinued to trip it on the  light  fantastic toe till five o'clock in the
marning, when the bride went home, and she had to go to bed
again alone, which she reluctantly did, but still hoping that Mr
M'------would yet relict, and speedly return to the fond and longing
embrace of his dearly beloqed M——.