Fatal Effects of Jealousy !



An Account of one of the most Barbarous Murders
ever heard of, committed by JOHN WILSON, near
Dundee, on Friday last, on the Body of his own
Wife, in a fit of Jealous Rage, by stabbing her in
several places and cutting her throat from ear to ear,
with a larga Carving Knife; also an Account of the
Murder of his own Infant, only eight days old, by
cruelly Dashing it on the ground, and afterwards
throwing it over a back Window, with the Intrepid
manner in which he was seized in the act by a ser-
vant Girl

LAST evening we were summoned to witness a scene from
which humanity recoils with horror and indignation ! a
scene, perhaps without a parallel since the first organixtation of civil
society. The circumstances are as follow: it appears that there had
been a fishing party during the day, composed, perhaps, of relations,
friends, and acquaintances, of whieh John Wilson was one.

On their return in the evening, accompanied by his brother-in-
law,and his wife, he appeared to be in an ill humour with his wife,
and pesceaded even to abuse ; but by the friendly interposition and
kind offices of the company there present, ha desisted for that time,
and the storm that appeared lowering, passed over without leaving
any an vestiges indicative of its recurrence ; but alas ? it vas a
most fatal security, into which he had hilled their suspicions.
When about to depart, he bade the sister of the wife, in an impres-
give manner to bid her farewell; but not suspecting the import of
this prophetic observation, they proceeded homewards.

Before they had been absent fifteen minutes, he commenced the
execution of his diabolical designs, by upbraiding her with iucon-
tinency, and ended his insulting and abusive language, by stabbing
her in the body with a clasp knife, which inflicted a deep wound in
her shoulder. Sho immediately fled, but in consequence of her de-
bility, occassioned by her having ,'giving birth to an innocent child
then not a fortnight old, he easily overtook her, and with a tremend-
ous blow, brought her senseless to the ground.

Commanding the assistance of a servant girl, who was close at
hand, he conducted her to the house, and placed her on the bed
when animation was soon restored ; he than with the most unex-
ampled ferocity, caught hold of the sleeping and innocent infant,
and with savage and unrelenting fury, dashed it with violence on
the ground, and again taking it by the legs, threw it forcibly over
the window into the yard behind the house.

Returning to the bedside, with his knife drawn and stained with
blood, he recommenced his abuse of his wife, and endeavoured to
extort confessions, by repeatedly stabbing her, renewing his inqui-
ries with hellish satisfaction at each scuccessive stab, while the mis-
erable victim of his cruelty, protested her innocence, and implored
his mercy with tears and intreaties, sufficient to soften the most
savage breast.

The servant girl, overcome with sympathy, profiting by his posi-
tion, seized him, and pushed him out at the door, thereby giving to
Mrs Wilson an opportunity to make her escape, which she employed
with as much alacrity as her weakened and wounded situation would
admit of, and had fled perhaps about fifty yards, when the unfeeling
monster overtook her, and dragging her by the hair of the head to
A considerable distance, put an end to her life, by cutting her throat
from ear to ear, in the most cruel and shocking manner ever wit-
nessed.

By this time, the alarm had reached the nearest neighbour, who
hastened directly to the scene of misery. The murderer, by this
time had exchanged the knife for 3. razor, and kneeling down in the
attitude of prayer beside the body of his murdered wife, was endea-
vouring to dispatch himself; he had completed part of his. design,
but finding the task more difficult than that of mnrdering his wife,
he only succeeded in making a slight incision in the windpipe, when
his hand was arrested, and it is hoped will recover, to answer before
an earthly tribunial for the perpetration of this unatural deed. Four
helpless children bewail the loss of their mother.
PRICE ONE PENNY.