To His  HIGHNESS the

Prince of Orange,

The Humble ADDRESS and SUPPLICATION of the PARISHONERS and INHABITANTS
Of the Famous  TO WN of

LINTON SUBMETRAPOLITAN of  TIVIOTDALE.

PROLOGUE.

Victorious SIR, still faithful to thy Word,
Who Conquer more by Kindness then by Sword,
As thy Ancestors brave with matchless Vigor
Caus'd Hogen Mogon, make so great a Figure.
So Thou that art great Britains only Moyses;
To guard our Ancient Thirstle with the Roses:
The discords of the Har\ill\  in tune to bring
And crub the pride of Lillies in the Spring.
Permit, Great SIR; poor us amongst the Press
In humble terms, to make this blunt Address ;
In Linton Verse, for  as your Highness knows
You have good store of Nonelense else in prose.

SIR, first of all that it may please
Your Highness to give us an ease,
Of out Oppressions more or less,
Especially that Knave the Cess.
And Poverty for Pity crys
To modisie our dear Excise :
It You'l not trust us when we say's,
Faith, SIR. We are not able to pay't:
Which makes us sigh  when  we  should  sleep;
And fast when We should go to Meat :
Yea scarce can get it when to borrow,
.    Yet drink.we must to slocken sorrow ;
For this our Grief, SIR, makes us now
Sleep seldom found till We be fow.
SIR, Let no needless Forces stans,
To plague this poor, but valiant Land,
And let no khetorick procure
Pensions only but to the Poor.
That Spendihrist Courtiers get no share
To make the King's Exchequer bare.
Then Valiant SIR, We beg at large,
You will free Quarters quire discharge.
We dwell upon the King's high Screet,
And scarce a day we miss some Cheat.
For Horse and Foot when they come by,
SIR, be they Hungry, Cold or Dry;
They Eat and Drink, and burn our Peats,
With seind a Farching in their Breicks.
Destroy our Hey, and press our Horse,
Whiles break our Head's and chat is worse
Consume both Men and Horses Meat,
And make both Wives and Bairns to greit,
By what is said your Highness may
Judge if two is Stipends we can pay:
And theresore is You wish us well
You must with all speed Reconcile;
Two Jangling Sons of the same Mother,
Elliot and Hay with one another;
Pardon us, SIR, for all Your Witt,
I fear that prove a kittle Putt.
which tho' the wiser Sort condole.
Our Linton Wives still blow the Coal;
And Women here as well we ken,
Would have us all John Thomsons Men.
Therefore, dear SIR, e're You be gone,
cast Kirk and Meeting-House in one ,
Whose mutual Charities are as scant
As Papists is to Protestant.    
SIR, it was said ere I was born,
Who blows best bears away the Horn;

And he that Lives and Preaches best
Should win the Pulpit from the rest,
The next Petition that We make,
Is thar for brave Old Teviots sake,
Who had great Kindness for this Place,
You'l move the Duke our MastersGrace;
To put a Kneck upon our Steeple,
To shew the Hours to Countrey People:
For We that live into the Town,
Our sight grows dim by Sun go down,

And charge. SIR, our Street to mend,
And Casley it from end to end.
Pay but the Workmen for their pains;
And we will joyntly lead the Stones
In eatc your Highness put him to it,
The Mercat Customs well may do it.
As for himself he is not rash,
Because he wants the ready Cash;
for it your Highness for some Reasons,
Should honour Linton with your Presence;
Your milk white Pelsrey would turn brown,
E're you yde half but throw the Town.      
And that would put upon our Name,
A blot of everlasting Shame
Who are reputed Honest Fellows,
And stout as ever William Wassace.
Lastly, Great SIR, discharge usall.
To go to Court without a Call.
Discharge  Laird Gifferd and Hug Yards,
James Dowglas and our Linton Lairds; 
Old William Younger and Geordy Purdy,
Laird Giffoord, Seroges, and little Swordie

And English Andrew, who hasskill,
To Knap at every word so well.
Let Kingside for the Town-Head,
Till that old Peevish Wife be Dead ;     
And that they go on no pretence,
To put this Place to great Expence.
Nor yet shall contribute their share,
To any who are going there.
To strive to be the greatest Minione
Or plead for this, or that Opinion
If we have any things to spair,
poor Widows they should be our Care 
                  The Fatherless, the Blind, the Lame,

That Sterve, and to Beg think shame.
So Fare well, SIR, here is no Treason
But wealth of Rymeand part of Reson.
And for to save some needless Coast,
We send this our Address by Post.
                   E P I L O G U E.

THrice Noble ORANGE, Bless'd be the Time,
such fair Fruit prosper'd in our Northren Clime:
Whose Sweet and Cordial Joyce assoords us Matter,
And Sauce to make our Capens eat the better.
Long may Thou thrive and still thy Arms Advance,
Till Englend send an Orange into france:
Well guarded thorrow proud Neptun's Wawes, and then
What's sweet to us may prove sour Sauce to them.
As England does, so Caledonia boasts,

She'l Fight with Orange for the Lord of Hosts.

And tho' the Tyrrant hath unsteath'd his Sword,
Fy fear him not, he never keep't his word.