A True and distinct

 ACCOUNT,


Of the Murder of James Campbel of
Lawers,

There lyes the Blood,

Yet bubbling from his Veins, O more than Savage,
Had he a Heart or Eyes that did the Deed !
Could Eyes endure to guide such cruel Hands.

Conger

IT Would seem a Paradox that in a Land irradiate with Gospel-light whose
native Off-spring is Peace, the vital Grace of Religion,That Love the Bafis
of Government,which cements Pagan and Turkish Societies from falling Asun-
der; and shuffling into Chaos should have forsaken our gladsome Region, aud
diabolical Cruelty, the Image and Off-spring of Satan fatally usurps its Room ;
did not daily Experience too plainly evidence that Hell is broke loose 'mongst
nominal Christians, who poisoned hy his infernal Philters commit Murder in
the Face of the Sun, and glut the Grave with their Conquests. To such a
surprizing Pitch of Wickedness are Men arriv'd in this serpentine Age, that
they pride themselves in affronting God, Civil Government and Humane Na-
turei and running á nimble Race to Damnation.

This publick Phrenzy displays its bloody Colours in Instances
Shoking to Nature. And sure the Reader's Anger will boil over his Eyes ; his
Heart burn with Indignation, and Sense, and Nature complain to th' Almighty
for Vengeance on the Malefactor, whilst I lead his Attention into the House of
Mourning, and entertain him with this melancholy Rehearsal.

James Campbel of Lawers, Efq; only Son and Heir to Sir James Campbel of
Lowers, a Gentleman of bright Parts, and immaculat Honour, an early Cadet
of th' Ancient and Noble Family of Argyle, being occasionally at Greenock with
his Cousin Patrick Campbel, Baron of Braemukly, in the County of Brodallin, and
too deeply tasting the Juice of the Grape fell into a fatal Quarrel; the Foun-
dation of which, they being alone, cannot be known so that he drew his Sword,
which he designed to run thro' the Body of his dear Friend, for whom he had
art exsessive Affection. Braemuckly finding himself inclosed, snacch'd at a Pistol
lying on the Table belonging to Lawers discharged the Shot in his Heart,
and sent his Soul to the wide World of Spirits in a Purple Torrent, on Fri-
days Ev'ning, the 19th Instant. Braemukly seeing his Friend had received a dead-
ly Wound, left his Body in Streams of Blood, run quickly down Stairs, and
with a great deal of seeming Composure, called for and mounted his Horse, en-
treating the Hostess to make Apology for his hasty Departure, to Lawers, for Bus-
siness of Moment called him away.

Thus died that unfortunate Gentleman in the Flower of his Age, being only
entered upon the thirtyfixth Year, after he had gained the Affection of a fine La-
dy, a Lady eminent for Virtue, Birth and Beauty, Daughter to Colonel Camp-
tel of Finnab, and the Marriage defign'd to have been solemniz'd within a few
Days, if this deplorable Accident had not happened.

Th'o' this Murderer made his Escape, unsuspected of so cruel an Action, and
came directly to Edinburgh, where he lodg'd for some Hours, in a Stablers at the
Sign of the Glasgow Arms, He will not escape the avenging Hand of the Almigh-
ty, who in all Ages hath Shown his Vengeance against Murder, and miraculous-
ly interpos'd in the Probation.

May this short Lecture, thrown out to the Street, be of Use to the Bulk of
the People, and fill them with a lasting Abhorrence of shedding of Blood, and all
these irregular Passions that have a Tendency to it.

S A L M   VII.                       
13  Fior acsuin agus  inneal mairbth                 
do dheasigh se pho sein :          
A shoighde do luchd dimhargidh
do ullmhuigh sé gu tréun.                              

14 Féuch, amhluidh iodnadh mná re saothair, 
mar sin re holc ata,                                  
 An taimhleas se bu torrchoios do,
breag mgadh leis gun stá.            

  15 Do chlaoich se slochd, is threachail e,
thuit fein san dig do rinn.                  

16 Thig aimhleas ar a chlaigcean fein
  is fhorneart ar a cheann.

17 Do réir a cheartais molaidh me
 an Tighearn' ar gach am :					
Do dhainm Jehobha sinaidh me,
           O se is aird, at' ann;



 FINIS   