A MARRIED MAN CAUGHT IN A TRAP,	

OR,  THE LOVER'S	
			
Detected A LAUGHABLE DIALOGUE.

Which took place in a Railway Carriage, between a Married Gentleman,   and
a Young Lady of this Town, which was overheard by a gentleman, who imme-
diately committed the same to writing.

He-Good morning my dear Emma.
She.-Good morning sir, I hope you are well,
He-Well thank you, and happy to see you, I hope
you will enjoy this pleasant trip with heart-felt satis-
faction. You know the last time we rode together we
were annoyed by those drunken scoundrels who ever
and anon disturbed our mutual conversation, but now
everything bids fare for an undisturbed and pleasant
interview between us, which I hope will turn out to our
mutual advantage. I was very uneasy the last time we
were together, thinking your mamma would bring you
to a strict account about where you were so very late
that night. I had a very remarkable dream that night
which left me very uneasy about you, thinking that all
our secrecy was found out by your mamma.

She-Dear Thomas, the thing was managed very
well on my part, if a soliciter had been with me to give
me his advice on the subject, I could not have acted
better. I told mamma that a particular friend took me
to the play that night, to see a favourite piece acted,
Which lured all suspicion and prevented further enquiries
I sent you a letter last week I hope you received it, my
chambermaid is very attentive to me on all matters of
secrecy, she post's my letters carefully and with such
circumspection that, I am not at all frightened of de-
tection. Sir, when you write, address your letters to
the care of John Grimshaw, for Ann Fletcher, residing
in T--street, No. 5, and by so doing we can keep up
are gular correspondence undetected.

At this period the shrill whistle of the railway train
announced that the engine had arrived at it's destination
on alighting at the station, Thomas, took Emma by
the hand, and cordially shook it, saying, farewell my
dear Emma.

After the parties had left the railway carriage, two
ofters Were picked up, the following are correct copies
the same.

My  beloved  Angel.

It always adds to my happiness
by sensing a line to my beloved. When you write to
me be very circumspect and  in broken sentences. I can
easily understand your sentiments, least it should get
into the hands of my wife, whose keen penetration
would soon discover our intamacy. She has a sharp
penetrating eye. keener than the point of a tailor's
needle, her tongue goes faster than railway speed, and
if she once starts, there is no telling where she may
stop. Meet me on Wednesday night at the gate, you
know where. let the hour be eleven o'clock, when the
youngsters are asleep that have so frequently disturbed
our nightly meetings.

I remain my dear Emma,

Yours. ever affectionate.

Yours came safe to hand, I shall always
esteem it a great favour to comply with your wishes
and meet you at the time and place appointed. I shall
inform my chambermaid of our appointment, and she
will tell mamma if there is any enquiry, that I am
gone to bed, and she will be ready to let me in at any
hour of the night that I am at liberty. Dear Thomas,
our private interviews are of such a pleasing nature
that I would give up all other engagements in the world
to meet you. It is at night when on my lonely bed that
your winning smiles are running in my head, like water
through a fountain. Pleasant dreams and scenes of
past interviews awake me from my sleep, and relying
on your punctuality, you may depend on mine.

I remain my ever loved Thomas,
Yours. sincerely.