 DREADFUL

FIRE

IN LONDON.

 
Full and correct account of that dreadful   and  awful Fire

which happened at the house of Lord Walsingham, in



Cavendish Square, London, on the morning of Wed-
nesday last, when his Lordship's body was burned to



ashes, and Lady Walsingham, to save her life, had
jumped over a window, and her mangled body was found
in the back yard, and she died in a, few hours.



(From the Caledonian Mercury.)


This morning a fire dreadful rather in its consequences .

to human life than for the ravages of the flames, broke
out at the residence of Lord Walsingham, at No. 55, Up-
per Harley Street, Cavendish Square. The fire was first
discovered by Mr Wigram, who resides next door to Lord
Walsingham. He instantly gave the alarm, and sent his 

own servants to knock at the door. The flames were at
this time bursting out of the bed room window of the
noble Lord.

The servants proceeded to the room of the noble Lord, 
which was found to be in one mass of flame and smoke,
and it was impossible to ascertain the fate of his Lordship.
A party of police now arrived, and preserved order. The
Royal Exchange engine, the County, and the Sun com-
menced playing on the premises, and having a good sup-
ply of water, prevented the fire from spreading.                     

The servants proceeded to the apartment of Lady Wal-
singham, and gave the alarm, but her Ladyship,  instead
of coming down stairs, in the hurry of the moment, jump-
ed over a window, into a back yard, where she was found
soon after, in the most shocking state of mutilation ; both
her thighs and arms   were broken.     She lingered till five
o'clock, when death put a period to her sufferings.      The
servants and officers then went to the room of Lord Wal-
singhain, and found his remains in  a  state of entire  de-
struction ; it was impossible to recognise  the   melancholy
remnant of mortality, so entirely had the flames wrought
the work of destruction.

The origin of the fire has not yet been ascertained, but
it is supposed that the curtains had taken fire by the
candle.

His Lordship was in his 55th year. He was a Lieu-
tenant-General in the army,  and Lieutenant Colonel of
the 1st regiment of Dragoons.

Price One Penny.