Trial & sentence

Of JAMES  DUNLOP,  of the Five   Alls Tavern,   Glasgow, and
JAMES HUNTER, for Stealing above 550 Pieces of Muslin form
a respectable Warehouse, and JAMES HARMER for Resetting
the Stolen  Goods.    The Trial took   place before the high
Court of Justiciary or Monday last, and occupied the Court
till two o'clock on Tuesday morning, when Dunlop and Har-
mer were found Guilty,  and sentence was immediately pas-
sed upon, them.                                         

Edinburgh, 8th December 1823.                                       

This day came on the trial JOHN  DUNLOP, of the live Alls Tavern, Glas.
gow, JAMES HUNTER,accused of stealing form the Warehouse of Mr Hutch.
ison, in Glasgow, about 38O pieces of muslin, and JAMES HARMER of resetting
the same or par thereof, were brought to the Bar,and pleaded Not Guilty.

JEAN BEATH, also included in the same criminal letters, was outlawed for
non-appearance.                                                                                                     

James Wilson, forman to Mr  Hutchison on often seen the prisoners Dunlop
and  Hunter in  the warehouse getting  goods out to singe.    They were always ac-
companed by boys.    In conseqence of  information received, witness  set  out for
Belfast, accompanied by two Police Officers , where  they found above 200 pieces of
stolen muslin which they brought  to Glasgow with them.                                

Mr. Hardie, superintendant of  police accompanied Mr. Hutchison to Dunlop's
house where they found a piece of  muslin in a press . Dunlop leaped out of the win-
dow and ran near a mile before he was apprehened.

Donald Frazer, police officer Glasgow searched Harmer's house in  August last,
where he found 4 unbleached, and 7 unbleached  pieces of muslin; witness also went
to Belfast where he apprehended Harmer, and brought him to Glasgow, along with
137 pieces of the muslins.                                                                              

James M'llroy, was in the service of Dunlop & Hun ter in Glasgow, last summer.
Dunlop, at his own house, opened hte pale for stealing the goods. The agreement
was, that witness was to steal the articles, and he would afterwards purchase
them from him. Cannot say how many pieces had been stolen. Went with him to
Hutch nson's manufactory for goods to be- singed. Witness held the bag into
which the pieces of muslin were put by Dunlop and Hunter and Dunlop were particu-
lar pieces put up in score for Hunter and Dunlop to take away in their turn. While
Hunter and Csrmichael held t he bag, Dunlop and witness put in the pieces, and
Dunlop and witness put in other pieces besides those which were laid aside for them.
Witness did so at Dunlop's desire, and was promised by him some money for a new
suit of clothes if he kept the circumstance secret. Witness was about three weeks
in the service, and this plan was laid the second night after he entered it. Does
not think that Hunter saw the pieces put into the bag which ought not to have been
put in. Witness was in the  practice of doing this every night; concealed it from
Hunter.    The bags were then taken to Dunlop's house by witness and  Hunter......
Dunlop and witness, after Hunter went away, tumbled out the goods, and those
stolen were kept separate by John Dunlop.  Got L,2: could not however say exact-
ly what he received.

 John Carmichial (another accomplice) collaborated the above evidence, and as.
sisted in the commiss oh o the theft, for which he received L.1

Several other witnesses completely established the guilt of Dunlop and Hamer.

The Lord Justice Clerk charged the Jury, who after a short deliberat on returned   
a verdict of Guilty, against Dunlop and Harmer; and Not Proven gainst Hunter,
who was therefore liberated from the bar.    The other prisoners, after ar, impressive 
admonition from the Lord Justice Clerk, were sentenced  to be transported for 14
years.    The trial lasted till two o'clock on Tuesday morning.

John Muir, Printer, Glasgow.