TRIALS.



GLASGOW, 26th April, 1826.

Yesterday, the Justiciary Court was opened here by Lord- Meadowbank and
Mackesnzie, when it proceeded with the trial of Duncan M'Arthur, Margaret
Love, and Catherine  Fitzgerald, charged with stealing a trunk, containing a
great many  articles  of wearing apparel belonging to Lord strathallan. The
former  transportation for life, and love and Fitzgerald for 14 years.

Thomas lnnes was charged with knocking  down and robbing James Hamil-
ton, weaver, of some bundles 9s.6d. of money, at the Gallowgate toll-bar,
on the 9th January last .    Not proven and dismissed  from the bar.

James Donaldson, robbery ; 14 years transportation.

James  Reid  was accused of stealing  some old iron, to which be pleaded
guilty. Sentence—Bridewell for 10 months.

Thomas Young  was  charged  with  robbing Matthew  Bell of a watch and its
appendages. The pilsoner  pleaded guilty.  sentence— Bridewell for 12 months.

Thomas M' Gregor, charged with  uttering  forged notes.   Dismissed.

Samuel  Thomson charged  with uttering forged  notes.      knowing the same to
be  forged.   The  prisoner  pleaded gullty.    sentence—14 years transportation.

James Dollan. and Robert  Sym, charged with robbery; Dollan was found
guilty, and sentenced to be Executed at Glasgow on Wednesday the 7th of
[ ] next.  Sym was sentenced to transportation for life.

Robert Mitchell Forrester, assault was outlawed for non-appearance.

Jean Livingsten was charged with stealing  L. 15 from the person of Neil
Walker, and of being habit and repate  a thief. 14 years trasportations.

Neil Johnston, cotton-spinner,was charged with stealing a silver watch.
Sentenced to  transportation  for 14 years.

Margaret Millar was charged with having at various times, by means of a
false key, catered a house in O d Wynd, 14 years  transportation.

John M'Laren, theft, pled Guilty ; sentenced to Bridewell for six months.

Alexander  M'Kenzie stealing a  silver   watch from the schooner Lord

Nelson, lying at Port Duadas —Guility, sentenced to  Bridewell for 12 months.

James Thomson, James M 'Donald, and John Semple were  charged with
breaking in to the house of Janet wilson, and stealing a  verity of arlicles, pled, 
not guity. M'Donald and Semple acquitted, and Thomson sentenced to 7
years transportation.

James M'Lachlan was charged with robbing Diederih Altmann Greenock
of a silver  watch ; libel not proven, and he was dismissed from the bar.

Peter Lennox and John King  housebreaking; 14 years transportation.

Catherine M'Leod  was charged with having  malicously and wilfully cut 
Walter Heatherington,  in the right  temple with a shoemaker's   knife, pled not
guilty. The Jury  returned a verdict of guilty. sentence not passed.

Peter M'Aulay cotton spinner, was  charged with breaking into the house
of Mr. John Anderson changekeeper,   Calton, and stealing a quantity  of wear-
ing apparel; he  was found guilty, and sentenced to 14 years transportation.

Thursday-This morning  Thomas M'Kenna and  Dennis Murphy  were
convicted of theft and housebreaking.   After an impressive  address from the
Judge to the pannele warning them to hold out no hopes  of mercy in this
world, they were sentenced to be Executed at  Glasgow  on the 14th June next.

James Kirkland, stabbing and wounding; 3 months imprisonment.

John M'Kenzie and Dan. M Kay theft; the former 18 months Bridewell,
the latter dismissed.

Alexr. Baird, Alex. Baird  jun & George Kerr, mobbing;  2 months in jail.

Charles Camphell, accused   of murder at Budgeton, was proved to be insane,
and is to be confined  during the term of his natural life. 

John  Watson intent to commit rapes 12 months in  Bridewell.

Daniel Paterson, intent at rape; sentence delayed.                                

Jean Bell, accused of child murder; 3 months in Bridewell.

John Campbell, uttering forged notes; 14 years transportation. 

John Grant and Peter Stuart, assault and robbery not proven, dismissed.

James Park, shooting and wounding; Not Guilty.

William Hunter, housebreaking and theft; 14 years transportations, 

James steel, assault; dismissed. 

Joseph Wilson and Thomsas Hamilton, robbery; the former goes to Edin- 
burgh; the latter liberated.

Wm. Walker, Daniel Mulholland and Jean Gray, housebreaking; the two
former dismissed, and the womon to be transported 14 years.

Robert Galbraith,  housbresking. Dismissed. 

[    ] Printer, Glasgow                                   