An account of the curious Trial of STEENY SLY before the Jury
Court at Stirling, on Wednesday last, for stealing  a Kiss from
Miss PEGGY PRUDENCE, as she was looking out of her win-
dow in the 2nd story of her house in the Town of St. Ninian's, while '
he was passing  by as a passenger on the top of the Royal Perth
Mail Coach. With  the curious evidence Of the other passengers
and guard, who were examined as witnesses. Damages laid at L.50.

(From the Glasgow Cornier of Saturday, May 10,  1823)          

PEGGY PRUDENCE, versus STEENY SLY.

THIS was an action to recover damages for
an  ged  theft  of a kiss, by Steeny Sly from
Peggy Prudence.

The  first  and principal issue set forth, that
the said Steeny Sly, while an outside passenger
on the Perth  and Glasgow Royal Mail coach,
on the  1st  April, 1823, about the hour of 12
did rob Miss Peggy Prudence  of a kiss, law-
fully  in  her possession, she at the time  having
her head  out of the window of her lodging in
the main Street of  St. Ninians, and the defend-
er on the top of the coach, which, from the
narrowness of  the street, came close to the
window, where the said Peggy Prudence was;
when the said Steeny Sly stole a kiss from
Peggy Prudence, to great loss and damage of
the Pursuer.—Damages laid at L.50

The case was opened by James Spinnet, Esq.
who, after an eloouent speech for the pursuer,
procceded to call his witnesses.

Peggy  Prudence. Depones that, on the day
libeled, as she was looking over the window
the Perth coach came past. when a young
gentleman, dressed in black, stretched out
his neck, and before she was aware, stole a
kiss from her, he was sitting on the to of the
the coach, is sure Steeny Sly is the person, as
she afterwards met him in Stirling; when, as
she thretatened  him with this  action, he wished
to rake up matters and return her the stolen
kiss.                                                           

Cross-examined by John Squeezer, Esq.  for
the defender. Never gave a kiss to  the defend-
er in her life; he tried to return the stolen one 
at Stirling, bat she did not take it, saw him
afterwards  give it to her sister              

Lawrence Queer Guard to the Coach ;.saw
the young man kiss the  girl, he (the lad) stole
it; it did not appear to be given by the lass.

Cross-examined--Never stole a kiss in his
life. On being cautioned to take care what
he said, owned that at a time, he may have
stolen one, but is not a habitual stealer of
them; sometimes takes a loan of them as he
goes  through  St. Ninians, but always returns
them when he comes back—the street is very
narrow and the coach may at times have given
a jolt—the street is not inconveniently narrow 
for him, as  it  is a pleasant thing to shake hands
with a friend from the window [   ]
for delivering and getting parcers.

Mr. Ricardo said  he was a political econo-
mist.   Qa being  asked what he considered a

kiss was worth, answered, it depends on the
demand for that article—in London they can
be got at all prices.

Jn  C---k has dealt in kissing a'   his life ;
fin's them every expensive;wude consider a
gude kiss worth at least the sum  libelled,  has
bought kisses at a much higher rate.

Lord E-----e has had both in his young day
and lately, dealings  in kisses; thinks the sum
shown forth in the libel not too great

Here the proof closed for the prosecution.
Mr. Squeezer addressed the Jury in  an elo-
quent and able speech in behalf of the detend-
er.    He then called.                    

Jerry Whip, who was Coachman on  the  day
the kiss was alledged to have been stolen. re-
members it perfectly; the lad, the defender,
was very civil in him, had given him a dram
at Dumblane, being asked if the Street of St.
Ninians is inconveniently narrow, answered
that  it was the d—mn—st ugly, dirty hole of
a place he had ever drove through being
admonished to avoid profane swearing, beg-
ged pardon, but declared it would make any
driver in Christendom swear  like a Turk to
drive through such a place.

Cross-exmined--Is  sure the coach heeled
over, and the defender' face forced against the
pursuer's- the guard may think the street is
not inconvenient for him, but it is quite an-
other thing to drive four horses before you,
than for to toot on a horn at the back of the
coach.

Joseph  Hume. --Has not dealt much is kis-
ses; likes more substantial Articles; has enquir-
ed into the value of kisses in Stirlingshn.; has
found that a pound of sweeties, which costs
eighteen pence, will buy two and a half kisses,
which makes one kiss worth seven pence one-
fifth to a fraction.                       

Cross-examined.-—Learnt    his   arithmetic
from Coker.....knows two and two makes  four,
and how many beans it takes to  make five

The  Learned  Judge,   LORD  HUMBIG.
WIG, summed up the evidence with his usu-
al ability and impartiality.                                

The   July, after having  retired for twelve
hours, brought in a verdict in favour of the    
defender.               

Counsel for the Plaintiff, Jas. Spinnet, Esq.
-Agent, James Straw.    Counsel for the De.
fender ; John Squeezer, Esq. —Agents. Messrs.
But & Ben.                               

John Muir, Printer, Glasgow.