Trial  and Sentence.

JOSEPH ALLISON and MAXWELL ALLISON were charged
with having, on the 27th May last, at or near to the house in
Fisher Street, Stranraer, county of Wigton, then occupied by Joseph
Allison, attacked and assaulted James Mourne, or Morrin, or M'-
Morrin, flesher, and stab him with a bayonet, or other sharp weapon,
whereby he was mortally wounded, and almost immediately ex-
pired. The pannels pleaded not guilty.

James M'Crea, shoemaker, was in Prince's Street, Stranraer, about
2 o'clock on Sunday morning 27th May, when Morrin was killed.
Witness, on the morning referred to, was going along Prince's
Street towards Fisher Street, and saw the two prisoners, and John
and William Allison, sons of Joseph, at the door of a house named
Hainey's in Prince's Street. Saw Armstrong come out of it along
with James Torrance and Hugh Willie. When the men came out
of the house the Allisons went in the direction of Joseph Allison's
house, in Fisher Street, and the men followed, as did wituess. He
then saw Morrin fall near Allison's house. Witness was about 20
yards from him. Morrin was about six or eight feet off the door
of Allison's house. Witness could not say what made Morrin fall.
Saw no person near him when he fell : but just a moment before
saw the two prisoners near him. Did not see either of the prison-
ers do anything to Morrin. The Allisons were between the door
and Morrin, and Morrin between the witness and the Allisons —
Maxwell Allison had a stick, and Joseph had a grape. Could not
say in what position the grape was held. The Allisons went im-
mediately into the house after Morrin fell. There were no one
nearer Morrin than witness' self, except the Allisons. When Mor-
rin fell witness caught him in his arms. He said nothing but died
instantly, without even uttering a groan.

Alexander Adam, printer, and James Campbell corroborated M'-
Crea's evidence. Ann  Main or Hashwell—lives at the corner of
Fisher Street and Prince's Street. Her house is next to Hainey's.
Was at home on the morning of the 27th May, and heard a dis-
turbance between 12 and 1 o'clock. In the fore part of the night
there was a great noise of swearing, Witness looked out at her
Prince's Street window, and saw a number of persons running
backwards and forewards. The noise continued for some time, and
began, again a little before 2 o'clock. The noise was in front of
her Prince's Street window—of persons talking of what had been
the fight the previous part of the night, and how they got on. Saw
Robert Willie; a young man, a printer; William Johnstone ; M'-
Cormack, a sailor ; Robert Armstrong's wife, and others. These
all went into Hainey's, and there was quietness for some time.—
Witness went to bed, and about a querter of an hour afterwards
was awoke by hearing a great disturbance coming round the corner
from Allison's. Got up, and looked out at Prince's Street window,
and saw a number of persons opposite the window. Knew only
Joseph Allison, and went to the door, and had a little conversation
with him. Witness mentioned the disturbance to him, when he
said he was sorry he had offended witness, or any of the neigh-
bours. He was speaking of the disturbance, when a brother, who
is not one of the prisoners, came up, and began a story of his wife
being ill ; that he had been working through the day and got wages,
and was going for medicine to his wife, when the money was taken
from him. Saw Joseph Allison have a stick under his arm, and
in his breast something fixed, to which a string was attached.
Mrs Campbell, who lives in the same house with witness was
looking out at the window, when witness saw something glance,
and she said to Mrs Campbell, " God Almighty, this man has got
a knife in his breast." After this, heard " Murder " often repeated,

Charlotte Callum or Campbell corroborated the statement of the
previous witness. Remembers Mrs Hashwell saying, " God Al-
mighty, Charlotte, look at the knife."

After several other witnesses were examined, the Solicitor-
General addressed the jury, and insisted on a verdict against Joseph
Allison.—Mr A Simpson, for the panels, followed, when Lord
Moncrieff summed up. The Jury, by a plurality, found Joseph
Allison Guilty of Murder, as libelled, and Maxwell Allison not
Guilty.

This morning, the unfortunate man was sentenced to be taken
back to Stranraer, to be fed on bread and water till Tuesday the
7th of August next, and then, between the hours of two and four,
be executed there.

Menzies, Printer.