An Excellent New Ballad,

Concerning a Bridegroom and his Bride who were lately Married at Borrowstounness, giving a
full and true Account of their Behavior, and of the Bridegrooms running away from the
Bride the same Night, without Beding with her.             


To the Tune of the Race of Sherriff-muir.     

Now If you'l but stay, I'll tell you the Way,
It's how the Bridegroom ran awa-Man,
His Name is John Dinmure he call'd his Bride limmer
His Living is at Ravenshaw Man,       
And he ran,and she ran, and she ran, and he ran,
And from the Brid he's run awa-Man.
A Wooing he's gone where Money is none,
But from the Lass he's gone awa   Man.
The Lass she did dwell near to the Syar Well
Indeed she's the best of the twa-Man.

And he ran and she ran, &c.

Her Name's Isabel Davie he play'd her the shavie,
For Greed of the Money he's awa Man.
The Lass has tane Sorrow for want of her Marrow,
Because he's quite from her awa-Man,

And he ran, and she ran, &c.

An Hundred Pound the Wooing began,
Which was the best Bargain, of a Man,
The Money he'll have the Bride does nor crave,
Which makes him for to withdra Man.

And he ran, and she ran, &c.            

In a Fourthnight short they have made up the sport
In Case that he should withdra Man,
To Church she is hyed to hear her self Cry'd,
She thought her self surest of a-Man,

And he ran, and she ran, &c.         

But heard you e're such a Sport how the Reader forgot
To Proclaim them when it was his fa-Man,
The Bell Man came in the Afternoon.
And cry'd them out before them a-Man;

And he ran and she ran, &c.

In her Brithel Ev'n he call'd her gly'd Queen,
He would not come near her at a-Man,     
But to her he sent, to tell his Heart was not bent,   
He would not come near her at a Man,

And he ran and she ran, &c.

The Day it was set the People was met,
They were both plenty and bra-Man;
In the Church she did stand upon his Right Hand,
Which was not the Fashion at a-Man, 

And he ran and she ran &c.

The Best-man in haste he was but a Beast,
By the Right Hand he led her awa-Man,
And as they came by, the People did cry,
You lead not the Bride right a - - Man.
And he ran and she ran, &c.    

The People fell plenty, the Meat it fell empty;
There's Nothing to give them at a - -Man,
A Shilling they've tane for a piked Bane,
Which was the best Profit of a - - Man

And he ran, and she ran,

While the Collops they fry'd the People they cry'd,
Is there Nothing to give us at a   - Man?
Jean Shaw she cry'd' Oh! Give me a little Broth,
My Money is ready to draw - - Man.

And he ran, and  she ran, &c.             

Then the Bridegroom took to flight, & on Shore he did light
The Souldiers upon him did draw - - Man:
The Women about they gave a great Shout,
To see the Bridegroom get a Fa - - Man.

And he ran, and she ran, &c.

Says Isabel M'nab, with her sleeked Gab,
My Dear, why did you with draw - Man.
Come here and be kind, and tell me you Mind;
The Sheets and the Blankets are bra - - Man.

And he ran, and she ran, &c.

Come here and sit down, let none in the Town,
Be talking that you ran awa - Man;
For I'm sure on the Morn, it would be a Scorn,
To hear the Bridegroom ran awa - - Man.

And he ran, and she ran, &c.                  

Through Dirt and through Red they trail'd him to bed
The Bride was the blythest of a - -Man :
The Bride was so byth, her Shirt she did rive,
And over her Head did it draw - - Man.

And he ran, and she ran, &c.       

But the Bride lay forlorn, untill the next Morn,
He would not consent to it at a - - Man;
But we'll have't in Record, how he roard on the shore
And how from his Bride ran awa - Man, 

And he ran. and she ran &c

The Bridegroom on Demand, he gave me his Hand,
He would pay the Musick full bra - - Man
Says he; As l live, the Money I'll give,
To Morrow I'll pay you for a - - Man
And he ran, and she ran, and she ran & he ran,
And from the Bride he ran awa - - Man.

F I N I S.

