A LETTER to the Author of the National Journal. 

S I R,                                 

IN all the Lists of the Prisoners taken in or after the Battle of Culloden, I observe,
That none of those taken were wounded.    Now, as in every Battle there are a
great many wounded, and left in the Field of Battle a Prey to the Conquerors, who
generally take as much Care of their wounded Enemies, as of their own wounded
Men, I wish you would inform me what became of the Rebels------that were left
wounded in that Field at that Battle.        I am, Your's,           TOM. CURIOUS.

SIR,                        To the Author of the National Journal.

AS your Correspondent Mr. Curious observes, there are People wounded in all
Battles. There were some at Dettingen, Fontenoy, Prestonpans and Falkirk ; and
we know that all the Care imaginable was taken, even by their Enemies, of those that
were wounded in each of these Battles. But in the Battle of Culloden, if the wounded
Rebels were all knocked o' the Head, it was no more than they deserved; for they,
and, I think, their Children, and the Children of all Jacobites, ought to be served so,
because, if they are suffered to live, many of them, in all Likelyhood, will grow up to
be Rebels------If we had in our Hands none of the Accomplices of these Traitors, their
might have been Policy in saving some of them for publick Executions, in order to
strike Terror, and prevent any Sort of Rebellion for the future; but we have enough
for that Purpose.

I also think, that all Jacobite Women, who are not past the Age of Breeding, should
be------, because there is no Doubt but many of them will breed Jacobites, as Chil-
dren generally suck in the Principles of their Mothers and Nurses, which can never be
eradicated but by great Posts and Pensions, and this, you know, is often a great Dis-
appointment as well as Loss to us honest People.

I am also of Opinion, that all the Corn in Scotland, designed for Seed, as well as all
the Cattle, ought to have been seized, and all Implements of Husbandry destroyed,
except what belongs to the few that are known to be well affected, which would in-
fallibly starve all those rebellious Wretches in a Year or two------This would effectually
extirpate them, and save us the Expence of transporting them to our Colonies, where
they may do great Mischief by infecting the People with their Principles.

As we have had very little Intelligence from Scotland since the Battle of Culloden, I
do not know if this Method has been folbwed; but I am clear in Opinion, that it
ought to have been followed ; and you may be assured, that many great, wife, and
powerful Men are of the same Opinion ; therefore I hope you will publish these my
Thoughts in your next Paper, which will oblige,

Sir, Yours,                        A true Modern WHIG .

P. S. If you publish this, I expect some good Place, in Reward for my Zeal, and
I intend to appoint you my Deputy.

A List of the Noblemen, Gentlemen, and others, attainted for their Accession to the Rebellion.
A Lexander Earl of  Kellie ; William Viscount of Strathallan ; Alexander Lord Pit-
A sligo ; David Wemyss Esq; commonly called Lord Elcho, Eldest Son and Heir ap-
parent of James Earl of  Wemyss;   James Drummond   Esq;   Eldest Son and Heir
apparent of William Viscount of Strathallan; Simon Fraser Esq; Eldest Son and Heir ap-
parent of Simon Lord Lovat ; George Murray Esq; commonly called Lord George Mur-
ray,   Brother to James Duke of Athol ;   Lewis Gordon Esq;   commonly called Lord
Lewis Gordon,  Brother to Cosmo George Duke of Gordon ;  James Drummond,
taking upon himself the Title of Duke of Perth ;   James Graham, late of  Druntroon,
taking on himself the Title of Viscount of Dundee ; John Nairn, taking upon himself the
Title or Stile of Lord Nairn; David Ogilvie,   taking upon himself the Title of Lord
Ogilvie;   John Drummond,   taking upon himself the Stile  or Titl of Lord John
Drummond,  Brother to James Drummond,   taking on himSelf the Title of Duke of
 Perth ; Robert Mercer Esq; otherways Nairn, of Aldie; Sir William Gordon of Park ;
John Murray of Broughton, Esq; John Gordon the Elder of Glenbucket ;   Donald
Cameron the Younger of  Lochiel;   Doctor Archibald Cameron,  Brother to Donald
Cameron the Younger of Lochiel;   Ludovick Cameron  of  Tor-Castle;   Alexander
Cameron of  Dungallon; Donald MacDonald of  Clanronald,  Junior, Son to Ronald
MacDonald of Clanronald ;   Donald MacDonald of  Lochgarie ;   Alexander Mac-
Donald of Keppoch ; Archibald MacDonald, Son of Colonel MacDonald of Barisdale;
Alexander MacDonald of Glencoe ;  Evan MacPherson of  Clunie ;   Lauchlan Mac-
Lauchlan of  Castle-Lauchlan ;  John MacKinnon of MacKinnon ; Charles Stewart
of Ardsheil; George Lockhart, Eldest Son and Heir apparent of George Lockhart of
Carnwath; Lawrence Oliphant the Elder of Gask; Lawrence Oliphant the Younger
of Gask ;   James Graham the Younger of Airth; John Stewart,  commonly called John
Roy Stewart;  Francis Farquharson of  Monalterye; Alexander MacGilivrae of Dru-
maglafli, Lauchlan MacIntosh Merchant at Inverness;   Malcolm Ross, Son of Alex-
ander Rose of  Pitcalny;   Alexander MacLeod,  Son to Master John MacLeod Ad-
vocate; John Hay, Portioner of Restalrig,  Writer to the Signet ; Andrew Lumsdale,
otherways Lumsdain, Son to William Lumsdale, other ways Lumsdain, Writer in Edin-
burgh ; and William Fidler, Clerk in the Auditor's Office-in the Exchequer of  Scotland.