THE MERRY BAG-PIPES

Or, The Pleasant Pastime betwxt a Jolly Shepherd and a Country Damsel,
on a Mid-Summer-Day, in the Morning.

To the Tune of, March Boyes, &c.   Licensed according to Order.

A Shepherd sat him under a Thorn,                 
he pull'd out his Pipe and began for to play,
It was on a Mid Summers day in the morn,
for honour of that Holy day;                             
A Ditty he did chant along,
goes to the Town of Cater-bor-dee,                 
And this was the burthen of his Song,
if  thoul't pipe Lad, I'le dance to thee;            
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.

And whilst this harmony he did make,                  
a Country Damsel from the Town,
A Basket on her Arm she had,
a gathering Rushes on the Down:                     
Her Bongrace was of the Wended Straw,
from the Suns hote Beams her face is free,           
And thus she began when she him saw,
if thou'lt pipe Lad I'le dance to thee,
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.

Then he pull'd out his Pipe, and began to sound,
whilst she in a merry mood did stay,
But when his quivering Note she found,
how sweetly then this Lass could play.
She stept all jumps and she reveal'd,
she keept all time with Harmony,
And looking on him, sighing said:
If thou'lt pipe Lad, I'le dance to thee,
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.

She never so much as blusht at all,
the musick was so charming sweet,
But e're and anon to him she'd call,
and bid him be active, turn and meet;
thou art a bonny Shepherd Swain,
I am a Lass now come to woue thee,
To play me another double strain,
and doubt not but I will dance to thee,
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee & c.

Although I am but a silly Maid,
and never was brought up at a dancing School
But yet to the Jegg that thou hast plaid,
you find that I can keep time and Rule:
Now see that you keep your stops aright,
for Shepherd I am resolv'd to view thee,
To play me the Damsels chief delight,
and never doubt Lad but I'le dance to thee
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.

The Shepherd again did turn his Pipe,
and plaid her a Lesson loud and shrill,      
The Damsel his Face did often wipe,
with many a Thank for his good-will,
And said, I was ne're so pleas'd before:
and this is the first time that I knew thee,
Come play me this very Jegg once more,
and never doubt but I'le dance to thee,
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.

The Shepherd he said, as I am a Man,
I have kept playing from morning till noon,
Thou know'st I can do no more then I can,
my Pipe is clearly  out of Tune;
To ruine a Shepherd I'le not seek;
said she, for why should I undo thee;
I can come again to the Down next week,
and thou shalt Pipe and I'le dance to thee,
To thee, to thee, derry, derry, to thee, &c.
FINIS.