A Full and Particular Account of the
Trial and Sentence of Allan Grant,
James Kenny Stewart, Mary Muirhead,
and Isabella Kerr or Gray, who were
tried at Edinr. before the High Court
of Justiciary, for the Crimes of Murder,
Robbery, and Theft, on Monday the
5th day of March 1827, and who are
all to be transported, Grant for Life,
Kenny Stewart and Mary Muirhead
for Fourteen, and Kerr or Gray for
Seven years.

AT Edinburgh, on Monday the 5th March 1827,
came on before the High Court of Justiciary,
the trial of Allan Grant,sometime a travelling pack-
man, James Kenny Stewart, Pensioner from 94th
Regiment of foot, Mary Muirhead, and Isabella Kerr
or Gray widow of Wm. Gray, Writer in Edinburgh,
accused of Murder, Robbery, and Theft; in so far
as they, on the evening of the 10th January last,
within the house occupied by the said James Kenny
Stewert, in North Bank Street of Edinburgh, wick-
edly and feloniously stole and theftuously carry 
away, from the now deceased Mark Dow, late Shoe-
maker in Edinburgh, a bill, notes and silver to the
amount of upwards of £80 sterling, and other
articles ; also, in or near the same place, they viol-
ently, wickedly, and feloniously attacked and ass-
aulted the said Mark Dow, by violently throwing
and dashing him on the stair, or on the flagstones
in the passage, by which his neck was dislocated,
and he shortly thereafter died in consequence; and
further, they wickedly and feloniously attacked and
assaulted the said Mark Dow, and seized and threw
him with great violence upon the pavement of the
said passage, or on the stair leading therefrom up
to Bank Street, and, while lying upon the pave-
meat or stair and disabled from making any resist-
ance, they seized and robbed him of a black cloth
coat, a pair of leather shoes, a black cloth vest, a
black hat, a white neckcloth, and a pair of braces,
all his property. To all which they pled Not
Guilty.

Several witnesses were then examined, one of
whom knew Grant for 8 years as a common thief.
Another police officer stated, when he was brought
to the office, a one pound note was found in the
sleeve of his coat, with six shillings and threepence,
and a silver pencil case in his pocket.

It was intimated, after a number of witnesses
were examined, and the prisoners declarations was
then read, that Grant was desirous to alter his plea,
his counsel having advised him to plead guilty to
the theft, (except as to the bill) as libelled, which
was done accordingly. The Lord Advocate had
now brought forward, he said, every individual
who could throw any light on this dark transaction,
but the evidence had failed to establish the murder.

His Lordship then restricted the libel, and the
jury after a few observations from the Lord Justice
Clerk, returned a unanamous verdict, finding the
murder and robbery not proven—Gray guilty in
terras of her own confession—Muirhead, Stewart,
and Grant guilty, in terms of their own confession,
and upon the evidence adduced.

Lord Meadow bank then proposed that Crant
should be transported for life—Stewart and Muir-
head for fourteen years, and Gray for seven years,
and they were sentenced accordingly.

Grant was known as a hawker through the city,
and is of a singular formation of body ; having at
one time had his back broken by a bank of earth
falling on him. Kenny Steware is a respectable
looking young man, who had lost his left hand
when a soldier. The two females have been long
known to the police as public pests.